The amount of downside has probably been
less than anyone would have expected.
>> is being very calm about this whole
situation.
>> The drawdowns in equities were not as
great as you would expect.
>> is trying to understand what is likely
to happen. Right now, the market is
expecting a soft off-ramp. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hordern.
Good morning, live from New York. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance. Welcome to
Whipsaw Wednesday, a 2-week ceasefire
propping up risk assets around the
world, sending oil prices tumbling the
most since the pandemic. With Iran
saying traffic can go through the Strait
of Hormuz, however, with caveats.
Analysts searching for the details of
the agreement to understand how quickly
shipping can resume. The move in markets
has been sharp, but not enough to erase
the losses since the end of February
when the war began. The bounce back
absolutely violent and immediate.
Russell 2000 leading the charge up 3.6%
in premarket trading. You can see Nasdaq
futures also outperforming a 3.4% gain.
When you take a look at what's going on
in the bond space, pretty much across
the board. But before we get there,
let's also talk about how much it's
really a global story. In particular
with the Kospi completely surging on the
heels of an expectation that you can get
that risk on feel, particularly in Asia,
up 6.9%. The Nikkei up 5.4% in Europe
rapid response with the DAX up the most
going back to 2022 if this holds up 4
and 1/2%. The bond space helping to fuel
this. Concerns about rate hikes just
easing away as people take a look at the
potential inflationary pushback. 2-year
yields in the US falling five basis
points to 3.7%. You can see a much more
violent move, more than 20 basis point
decline both in the UK and the German
2-year yields. And then when you take a
look at the why, it all has to do with
the oil space. Crude absolutely tumbling
in the prospect of a potential end
cessation to the violence down 3 13.9%
on Brent, down 16 and a half percent on
New York crude. We have an incredible
show. John and AMH both out with us so
coming up this hour. Do not miss this.
Julian Emmanuel of Evercore ISI with
global markets absolutely surging.
Amrita Sen of Energy Aspects as oil
plunges the most since the 20 20
pandemic and Lindsey Piegza of Stifel on
the risk of stagflation. We begin with
the top story of the US and Iran
reaching a deal for a two-week
ceasefire. Our team coverage starts
right now at Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
in Washington and Joumanna Bercetche in
Dubai. Tyler, I want to start with you.
What do we know about what concessions
the US made heading into this to reach
this ceasefire?
Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, this
definitely marks a pulling back from
President Trump's threat of what was
height in rhetoric yesterday ahead of
his 8:00 p.m. Eastern deadline. We're
still waiting on further details, trying
to glean them on exactly what is going
to go into this proposal. What President
Trump himself said that he was willing
to work with Iran's 10 top demands as a
basis for negotiation. But we know that
a lot of those terms, including pledges
that the US and Israel would not attack
Iran going further and that Iran could
have sovereignty over the Strait of
Hormuz are unlikely to be tenable for
the US and Israel going forward.
President Trump himself said in a post
that quote almost all points of
contention had been agreed to, but there
are still big questions here on what
some of the top US demands, including
limits on Iran's nuclear program, as
well as what's going to happen to the
country's enriched uranium stockpile are
ultimately going to look like. So while
tensions are now simmered for at least
now, there are still big questions here
on how this is ultimately going to
unfold because of course Lisa, it all
comes down to the Strait of Hormuz.
President Trump did suggest that the US
would somehow be involved in securing
that waterway, but again, we're going to
have to see how it comes to fruition.
And Jimena, Jimena, on the Iranian side,
we got a statement saying that for a
period of two weeks safe passage through
the Strait of Hormuz will be possible
via coordination with Iran's armed
forces and with due consideration of
technical limitations. Do we have a
sense of what that means?
Well, it's exactly to Tyler's point.
They are once again reasserting their
right of sovereignty over the Strait of
Hormuz, a condition of course that did
not exist before the war. This is a new
political point of leverage that has
emerged as an outcome of the war and it
is something that Iran are holding on
very close to
as we get into the series of what is
expected to be in person negotiations by
the end of this week. So this is one of
their main points of leverage. And
overnight the National Supreme Council
of Iran released their 10 points for
what they would like to see in order to
turn this ceasefire into more lasting
peace resolution. And one of the points
is again, maintaining that sovereignty
over the Strait of Hormuz. They have
said that for the next two weeks
ships will be able to pass so long as
they work in coordination, this is a
quote, with Iran armed forces. And
therefore, once again, sort of just
reiterating the the control that they
have over that chokehold, but it's not
just that. To Tyler's point, there are
other very maximalist demands that
they're putting forward including
assurances that the US will never attack
again. They want a full lifting of
sanctions. They want to be able to still
work with their proxies in the region.
And many of these, again, would be non
non-starters from the US's standpoint.
So they're still very far apart. The
other thing that I want to mention as
well is of course, you know, we step
back from the brink and the the world
today looks very different than it did
say 24 hours ago.
Um but I will just say that there's a
question about whether all arms of IRGC
are actually implementing the ceasefire
because just in the last couple of hours
we're hearing of more projectiles being
intercepted in Kuwait. About half an
hour ago the UAE put up a notice saying
that they're still uh once again
intercepting an incoming projectiles
coming through. Uh and so it may be a
couple of days before the ceasefire gets
fully implemented. And so for the time
being, you know, there is a bit of
relief but a lot of cautiousness about
how this is all going to play out.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall, Jumana
Bercetche, thank you both so much for
that and we'll be catching up with you
throughout the day. Julian Emanuel of
Evercore ISI joining us here in the
studio. Julian, before we get into it,
what's your response to the ceasefire
and how much you can really buy into it?
Well, so I think we just have to step
back and and say two things here. Number
one, there's a huge sigh of relief that
the incendiary language and and the
inflamed rhetoric of the last 3 days on
all sides is being set aside for
hopefully at least 2 weeks, perhaps uh
longer. Uh but then when you think about
where the markets were and are, um you
know, taken individually, the degree of
hedging in stocks, credit, bonds, all
bearish, and oil, all bullish,
were at extremes going back to the
pandemic. Taken collectively, the amount
of hedging, and I've been doing this for
a while, I was a junior trader uh on the
floor during the first Gulf War, there
is no precedent for the the collective
amount of hedging. So from that
perspective, you know, this is a a sigh
of relief that we do think has some
staying power, but again, as as we've
been saying, the devil will be in the
details over the next several weeks.
>> it has staying power, that means it's
something that is tradeable and that you
do see upside here in a number of
different markets. How much is it
concentrated in the United States versus
say Europe versus say Southeast Asia?
Well, again, if if you go back to the
oil price, which is essentially the
linchpin for everything here,
the the sigh of relief being breathed in
Europe this morning is proportionally
larger because the effect
on elevated oil prices on Europe is also
proportionally larger. But when you
think about it, our view has been that
the bull market that started in October
of 2022 has further to go. We thought
that a week and a half ago as as you
were plumbing back towards 6300.
And frankly, what we find in bull market
history is the stocks, themes, and
geographies that led and US tech has
been all of those end up leading. So,
from our point of view, the biggest
thing is is the fall in yields here
telling you that that is an endorsement
of higher multiple equities. Yeah, and
that's clearly what is gaining the most
this morning. You can see this sort of
this rush into big tech seeing
valuations as more attractive after the
sell-off. I wonder more broadly though
about the drop in yields because you
aren't seeing necessarily yields going
all the way back to where they were on
February 27th and you're not seeing oil
prices go all the way back to where they
were on February 27th. And even if this
deal is enacted in some form and a
prolonged ceasefire takes hold, unclear
how much oil prices go back to where
they were. Does there have to be a
higher inflationary understanding going
forward that will affect those bond
yields? No, and and look, to be clear,
our house view is that the landing zone
for oil is certainly going to be much
higher than it was. This is a structural
change that will take years to work
through the system. So, we're looking at
a Brent price that ultimately lands in
the mid to high 80s, WTI the low to mid
80s. And for stocks, both of those are
perfectly fine given the fact that over
the course of years and decades, the
reliance on oil
for equity markets has diminished.
Obviously, it's is still quite
significant as we've seen by the threat,
but again here for us, it is not if you
continue subsiding from here, is not at
all a material headwind for either
growth or the equity markets.
>> How much of a linchpin will potentially
earnings be? Even more so now given the
fact that that has been the one aspect
of the market that has upheld all
optimism starting off with Delta later
this hour. So, if in the middle of
February before the conflict began, I
told you that earnings would be revised
higher between here and then, you'd have
called me a fool.
Earnings have been revised higher and
actually, we are below consensus
projecting an earnings growth rate of
over 11% for 2006. And the history of
double-digit earnings growth is
incredibly powerful. Since 1996, 11
years of double-digit earnings growth,
the market has been up 10 out of 11
years. Well, this is the reason why a
lot of people have stayed optimistic,
albeit maybe hedged. Julian Emanuel is
going to be sticking with us for the
hour, which is a wonderful thing. If you
are just joining, there was a ceasefire
agreed upon with Iran saying that there
can be ships going through the Strait of
Hormuz with coordination with their
armed forces and with the understanding
of technical limitations. We will have
more for you at an 8:00 a.m. Eastern. We
do have a press conference with Pete
Hoekstra, the the Department of War the
Defense Department Secretary. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg Brief with Yahaira Olanid. Hi,
Lisa. As you were just saying, President
Donald Trump announcing a 2-week
ceasefire last night, subject to Tehran
reopening the Strait of Hormuz. The
president is calling Iran's 10-point
plan workable for negotiations and says
the US will assist in allowing safe
passage through the Strait of Hormuz.
Plus, the White House is also saying
Israel has also agreed to the ceasefire.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu saying the temporary deal,
however, does not extend to Israel's war
with Hezbollah in Lebanon.
And a new front in the war with Iran, US
intelligence agencies warning private
sector companies of Iran-linked
cyberattacks on critical infrastructure,
including drinking water systems. The
warning came before the ceasefire was
announced. That's your Bloomberg Brief,
Lisa. Thank you so much, Yahaira. Up
next, an 11th-hour deal.
All I can tell you is they're begging to
make a deal. If there is no deal, we are
going to hit each and every one of their
electric generating plants. We have to
have a deal that's acceptable to me. And
part of that deal is going to be we want
free traffic of oil and everything else.
Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins next as we try to get
some details around the agreement that
was reached. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
What a turnaround it's been after a
ceasefire was agreed upon hours before
the the 8:00 p.m. deadline yesterday.
What we're seeing right now in markets
is an absolute cheer from risk assets
led by the small caps and by big tech up
both more than 3.4% S&P futures up 2.6%
in the bond space. A sense of relief
that maybe there won't be the same kind
of inflationary pressures that will keep
a rate hike very much at the forefront
of Fed officials' minds. You can see
2-year yields down almost six basis
points, 3.73%
a lesser rally at the long end of the
yield curve ahead of $39 billion of
10-year notes being auctioned today off
at 1:00 p.m. Eastern down five basis
points right now to 4.24%
It is all being driven by the oil space.
When you take a look at crude, at Brent,
at WTI, absolutely nose diving. The most
going back to 2020, April of that year,
13.3% decline on Brent to $94.78.
That is the June contract in New York
crude for the May contract is 15.9%
down, $95 uh even. Under surveillance
this morning, an 11th-hour deal.
We want to knock out every single thing
they have. Now, it's possible that we'll
make a deal before that.
>> Well, all I can tell you is they're
begging to make a deal. So, let's see
what happens. If there is no deal, we
are going to hit each and every one of
their electric generating plants very
hard.
>> We have to have a deal that's acceptable
to me. Here's the latest. The US and
Iran agreeing to a 2-week ceasefire just
hours before President Trump's deadline.
Joining us now at Colonel Wayne Sanders,
senior defense analyst at Bloomberg
Intelligence. Colonel, thank you so much
for being with us. What do you make of
the agreement that was released just
less than two hours before that 8:00
p.m. deadline?
Hey, thanks so much for having me on. I
I think the the ceasefire deal is a
great opportunity right now for both
sides, right? To be able to claim some
victory here. If you look at the the US
side of the house, you can claim the
military strikes were successful that we
were able to degrade uh missile
stockpiles for uh Iranian capability
that uh nuclear enrichment capability
has been degraded if not for 10 to 20
years
as President Trump has been talking
about. So, I think those are a good sign
for the US. Iran can sit here and say
that they were able to hold off the
great United States military and that
they still maintain quite a bit of
military power and influence over the
Strait of Hormuz on the global scale.
So, I think at this point in time now if
they can at least come to the agreement
as to what the execution of that
agreement across the straits is probably
going to be the most
the most sensitive area right here in
terms of what that toll looks like, what
the escort capability would look like in
the region. Well, that is to me kind of
the key point, right? And that's what a
lot of people keep pointing to. Should
Iran keep control essentially over the
Strait of Hormuz, it makes them a
superpower of sorts for that a lot of
people are saying. It gives them a lot
of financial clout with respect to the
tolls that they'd be collecting. And
frankly, it gives them power over one of
the most important waterways in the
world. Is that palatable to the United
States and frankly to the Gulf allies?
Yeah, I think for the US for President
Trump right now it it may be just based
off of the situation he's in right now.
For the Gulf states, I know that's not
really what they're looking for
at this point in time because of the
power and influence that Iran could
actually exert over this. When I see
some of the comments that President
Trump has talked about recently, right?
It's hey, this seems more like a NATO
and an Asia problem. So, him removing
the US from that situation says, "Hey,
come buy toll-free oil from the United
States." as you've heard him say over
the over the last little bit. But on
that on that geographic scale if you're
looking at geopolitically, a lot of the
help for the Gulf states and how close
the US has gotten from them at this
point in time, I think that they are
still looking for the US to play a role
in either bringing down what that toll
would look like or that's going to be
part of this ceasefire deal part of the
negotiations over the next 2 weeks.
Colonel Jim Sciutto was talking earlier
this morning about how there have been
reports of projectiles uh being shot
from Iran. Unclear exactly how cohesive
the IRGC is right now in agreeing to
some sort of ceasefire. What do we know
about that and and how fragile is some
sort of truce really is?
Yeah, I think one of the biggest pieces
there is if you go back and you look at
the Iran-Israel 12-day war, there were
there were even after a peace deal was
made
during the end of that that conflict,
there were still skirmishes that that
took place. It was almost like everybody
wanted to get their last shots in. There
also you have to look at when you deal
with Iran is also some of the proxies,
whether you're looking at Hezbollah
playing a part of this or it's IRGC
that's not getting the message yet.
There's a lot of pieces that are in
that. I think the key there is going to
be how much is actually being hit that
would actually cause there going to be
trigger points for the United States
that they'll want to acknowledge and
would potentially raise to an
escalation. But if they think it's just
a skirmish and something like that,
they'll probably still hold back from uh
you know, re-engaging with Iran at the
full-scale conflict they're doing now.
And Colonel Sanders,
what does this look like in 2 weeks? Is
it going to be, you know, a replay of
brinkmanship or something different?
No, it's a great point, right? I look at
it in terms of what does the 2 weeks for
the United States military look like
right now. And so, if you're on the
intelligence community side, you are
going to be doing everything you can to
confirm or deny battle damage assessment
for what you've hit so far as well as
what is going on. So, you're trying to
pull in as much information as you can
to make sure that is Iran holding to
what they're saying? Are there troop
movements anywhere going on so that you
can you can potentially provide some
type of mitigation strategy. If you are
a planner, you're putting together what
that would look like if an agreement is
not reached in those 2 weeks so that you
are prepared to jump directly back in
with full-scale conflict as they've did
before. The maintainers doing everything
they can to maintain those aircraft, the
flight lines, everything else like that.
The only ones who might get a little bit
of rest right now were the pilots,
but they're still going to probably have
overflight to make sure that we still
have intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance during this time frame.
So, if it's all said and done, you're
probably going to see a slow amount of
of withdrawal of US forces. You know, I
think with the third carrier group on
the way, you know, you might actually
see the the Ford head back while the
Bush gets there from a carrier strike
group perspective, but you're probably
still going to see quite a bit of
presence in that region even if nothing
is taking place just to maintain
situation awareness in the area just in
case. Colonel, do you have a sense of
how the alliances look right now? Who's
lining up with who in terms of trying to
pressure some sort of ongoing ceasefire
that can last?
Yeah, I mean, I see Pakistan, Egypt, and
Turkey pushing really hard right now to
maintain that ceasefire. I know that
when you look at UAE and Saudi Arabia,
they were they were wanting us to
continue to push. They He was They were
pushing for the United States to
continue to push Iran further back
militarily from that perspective. You
see a lot of that coming based off of
the amount of Iranian strikes. We're
mainly focused on UAE and Saudi Arabia
disproportionate compared to anywhere
else. And a lot of that I think is due
to some of the trade deals that that we
have with the United States that those
Gulf states did as well as the military
presence and the allowed access that the
military has had in both Saudi Arabia
and in UAE. Colonel Wayne Sanders of
Bloomberg Intelligence, thank you so
much for being with us and all of your
insights. Julian Julian Julian Emmanuel,
I'm looking at this and thinking how
much has changed, right? How different
is the landscape that we're looking at
even if a ceasefire were to last? Is
there anything fundamentally other than
oil prices being a bit higher than where
they were to begin that is materially
shifted for you in terms of your base
assumptions going forward? Well, you you
certainly degraded a great deal of
Iran's capabilities regardless of of
their, you know, ability to control the
straits either in the near or the medium
term.
And so so from that perspective, you
know, one can argue that there is is a
change. You know, which frankly,
you know, puts a cap on oil prices, but
also because of the greater instability
in general, also puts a much higher
floor
on oil prices. But I think the colonel
made made a pretty good point here is
that there are so many moving pieces and
as you pointed out, so many shifting
alliances that it's very difficult to
fathom how the next 2 weeks, let alone
the next 2 months, unfold. One market
move that caught our attention this
morning was the Chinese Yuan, the
Renminbi. We're looking at right now the
dollar at the weakest level versus the
Renminbi going back to 2023.
It is completely taken out of some of
what we had seen at the February 27th
deadline. You've seen the Yuan
strengthen significantly beyond that.
And this comes at a time where people
are talking about the petro-Yuan. Right,
we had the petro-dollar after 1974 and
the Henry Kissinger Accord with Saudi
Arabia. Now there is speculation that
any kind of transfer of oil through the
Strait of Hormuz will be transacted in
the Chinese Renminbi. How much does this
type of speculation get your attention
and make you actually think about where
you're going to be investing and what
the base currency is going to look like?
Well, again, from from an investment
point of view, we continue to be
believers in in the US in terms of its
capital markets and and the risk-reward
opportunities. But you have to
acknowledge that if nothing else,
the the decline in oil prices in the
last 24 hours
because China is such a reliant
importer, particularly on Middle Eastern
oil, is significant and certainly a
tailwind for China and frankly what it
does is the the reflection of the
currency certainly gives Chairman Xi a
much more robust
jump-off point for the meeting that's
going to happen with President Trump a
month from now.
>> Yeah, on the flip side there's also a
question about verbal intervention and
verbal diplomacy and what we could hear
later today from President Trump what
that could look like. Jordan Rochester
over at
Mizuho was saying that the hardest part
of this war is not understanding energy
logistics, but markets reaction to White
House messaging. What are you hoping to
hear from the White House messaging that
could potentially set this market more
permanently at ease?
I I did the concept of more permanently
at ease certainly has much longer than a
2-week shelf life. I frankly I think
if we hear more of what we heard
yesterday evening that there is progress
being made and there are negotiations
ongoing,
that's enough. This morning it is
whipsaw Wednesday with risk assets
absolutely soaring. Coming up we're
going to be speaking with Amrita Sen of
Energy Aspects with oil plunging more
than 10% the most going back to 2020
amid the height of the pandemic. Plus
Yahaira O'Neal with your morning movers
airline stocks soaring following news of
a ceasefire. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Seeing huge surge in risk assets after a
ceasefire was announced less than 2
hours away from the 8:00 p.m. deadline
yesterday led really by
some of the smaller companies as well as
the technology companies. 3.7% gain on
the Russell 2000 futures. Nasdaq futures
up 3 and 1/2% in the bond space. A real
bid into credit into fixed income. A
belief that maybe inflationary pressures
will not force the Federal Reserve and
other central banks to hike rates lower
by about six basis points at the front
end to your yield 3.73%
10-year 4.24%
and then of course all of this is being
driven by oil prices. Oil plunging the
most going back to 2022 with Brent and
WTI both down more than 10% almost 14%
on Brent, 16% on crude. We are getting
the beginning of earning season and this
to me is going to be the key moment
going forward. How much can companies
adjust and adapt to a very tumultuous
moment? How Delta Airlines is adapting
and adjusting is leaving out full year
guidance in their latest statement
announcing earnings. They do beat
expectations pretty much across the
board whether it's passenger revenue,
whether it's earnings per share, also
seeing profit of around $1 billion for
the second quarter. But they talked
about how they are trying to insulate
their balance sheet from some of the
increase in oil prices. Protective acts
include meaningful cuts to capacity
growth. They say that demand is still
strong though. This is the key point and
joining us Emmanuel who is with us for
this hour, this is what everyone keeps
going back to. The momentum heading into
this very strong.
Yeah, I it look the economy was in a
good place which allowed the stock
market to weather this disruption
and again whether it is the economy now
looking as if it won't be on a
stagflationary path and back towards 2%
or more GDP growth for the year.
It's it's a reinforcement of earnings
and and ultimately the entire message
that things are on
reasonably solid footing. And traders
are hearing that message loud and clear
with Delta up 9% in pre-market trading
with more on that and many others. We
are 3 hours away from the cash opening.
Yahaira On Air has your morning movers.
Yahaira.
>> Hi Alyssa, great segue. A clear
beneficiary of the ceasefire is the
airline stocks and they are all higher
across the board and now higher now that
Delta came out with good earnings. The
hope now is that oil starts flowing
through the Strait of Hormuz easing some
of the supply concerns that had sent jet
fuel costs soaring and of course that is
critical for the airlines since fuel is
such a massive part of their costs. And
as we're seeing oil pulling back as
sharply we are seeing pressure being put
on US energy stocks. These names have
been big winners during the conflict.
Occidental up some 60% since the war
began. Exxon up 10% so this is a clear
reversal we're seeing as that risk
premium comes out and investors lock in
those gains. And we end on tech stocks
another clear beneficiary of this
ceasefire. They had been hit hard during
this conflict with oil higher, inflation
fears pushing rates higher, but the
pressure is easing so you are seeing
this rotation back into the more
growthier parts of the market. So names
like Google up 4% in the premarket.
Lisa. Thank you so much Yohai. On our
radar this morning, the US and Iran
agreeing to a two-week ceasefire
averting a major escalation just ahead
of President Trump's deadline. Iran
agreeing to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
President Trump saying the US will help
restart traffic through the waterway.
The White House also saying that Israel
agreed to the ceasefire. Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu disputing
that saying the temporary deal does not
extend to Lebanon. And more than 800
vessels remain trapped in the Persian
Gulf according to the Wall Street
Journal. Iran is telling ships anchored
near the Strait of Hormuz they must have
permission to cross or face being
destroyed. And Julian, this is really
the question. If you have 800 ships that
are still waiting to get through, you
have many others wondering whether they
should begin their journey. How
important is to see traffic actually
begin to flow and under what conditions?
No, we definitely want to see it and I
think traders across the world will have
that app showing the the traffic in in
real time.
And you do want to see it and and when
you think about all the sticking points
and the complications of the next
several weeks, you know, control of the
straight is far and away the biggest
point. Yeah, and how much is it going to
be a concentrated with oil or with all
of the potential resources, right? I
mean, how much do you see this trickling
out to agriculture? How much do you see
this trickling out to, you know, the
petrochemical space, especially in light
of some of the damage that's already
been done?
>> so for instance, you know, you started
the show talking about how much the
KOSPI has rallied. Let us remember that
helium, which has been bottlenecked in
the straight, is an incredibly important
input into into chip manufacture. Yeah,
how much does South Korea and frankly
the entirety of the complex need that
helium? The KOSPI up more than 5% this
morning. So, we're going to keep
watching that. Meanwhile, oil very much
the asset class in focus plunging by the
most since 2020. Key questions still
remaining on what's next for energy
flows through the Middle East. Joining
us now is Javier Blas of Bloomberg
Opinion. Javier, I'm so glad to have you
on the show. What's your sense of what's
actually been agreed upon and how much
potentially should this stick? This
fundamentally changes the oil trade.
Well, so far what we have seen is two
statements with in particular
contradictory. President Trump said that
he wanted
a safe and unrestricted flow of all
commodities through the Strait of
Hormuz. The Iranian statements say,
however, that
it's going to be limited because of
technical capabilities, but also that
approval is going to be needed by his
military. So, those statements are
contradictory in nature. The the fact is
that at this moment, and that's emphasis
at this moment, very little is moving
out of the Strait of Hormuz. The oil
market has priced it as it was
completely open and and full, but I
think that the sentiment from many oil
traders is that over time, and I think
that that's going to be in the next few
hours, we will start to see some
movement both in oil and gas flows, LNG
flows from the Strait of Hormuz, and
that's going to really alleviate
tension. And and we are still in a bad
situation, but worst-case scenario has
completely be avoided, at least for now.
There is a feeling, though, that the
backwardation in the oil curve is
extreme. It's at record levels if you
take a look at where spot Brent was
trading just yesterday at over $140 a
barrel versus the further out $70 or $80
that you see at the end of this year. Do
you see that shifting? That that
backwardation is going to change as
people reassess what the landscape looks
like?
I think that backwardation is going to
remain for a few more days into the
market. That is still backwardation. If
a refinery is short of oil right now and
it needs the barrels of oil, it's going
to have to pay and it pay a big price to
secure the oil. But if we start seeing
some movement of oil that some of those
panic buying may recede, some of the
refineries may be able to withhold a few
more days when they hope that the oil is
going to start flowing. So I think that
the the key question is the next 24 to
48 hours. If we see a meaningful
movement of oil out of the Strait of
Hormuz, that will be significant.
Will oil tankers move into the Strait of
Hormuz? That is a much bigger question
because that really
takes quite a lot of risk. Can you get a
ship into the Strait of Hormuz, take the
risk that maybe that ship gets trapped
if the if the peace talks fail? Because
to restart production in the Middle
East, we need first the vessels to get
out, but we also need new vessels to go
in. And that that that second phase, I
think, is going to take more than a few
hours and it probably will take a few
days. Javier Blas of Bloomberg Opinion,
honored to have you on the show. Love to
read your commentary and hopefully we
can catch up with you again soon. Amrita
Sen of Energy Aspects writing, "Even
after Hormuz flows restart, most
producers will need to will need several
months to restore production." Amrita
Sen joins us now. Amrita, I would love
to get your sense of just how much has
changed given the truce that was
announced last night.
I think I completely agree with what
Javier said. If you read the statements,
they're actually two quite different
statements. We're hearing from refiners
and lifters who are trying to kind of
get a ship in.
Firstly, the cost is prohibitive. You
know, you're talking about more than $40
a barrel.
Even if you can get insurance, there's a
huge amount of confusion with regards to
whether they need to pay the Iranians,
how they're going to pay the Iranians
because payment to to be made to the
Iranians is not easy given the
sanctions. The Iranians are actually
sending out messages to vessels outside
the strait saying that, you know, if you
are actually going to pass the strait or
if you're going to come in, you need our
permission. So, this is by no means a
strait that's open for business, to be
very clear. What I would say is that we
are likely to see the ships that are
within the strait right now, whether
they're empty or whether they're loaded
with crude and products, we've counted
our cargo tracking team counts about 250
vessels. Those over time could
potentially move out with Iran's
permission, but I don't think you'll see
vessels moving in and I think that's
going to be the critical thing. Unless
you actually have a complete ceasefire,
not just a 2-week one, but we know that
hostilities have ended.
Amrita, you know, when thinking about
the growth versus inflation trade-off,
I'm just wondering, have you seen any
evidence of demand destruction in these
last several weeks?
Great question because you know, and you
guys were just talking about the
divergence between actual kind of
physical prices and futures prices. The
problem is everything is being reflected
in the physical price, right? You know,
dated Brent was trading above $140.
Dubai traded back in a few weeks ago at
$160 per barrel. And that's actually
being reflected in products prices. If
you look at diesel, if you look at jet
fuel, they've been trading over $200 per
barrel even in the US. And yes, we have
seen some demand destruction in parts of
Asia. Partly also because governments
have stepped in and asked for rationing
in advance or as kind of the crisis has
progressed. So, we have definitely seen
about a million barrels per day of
reduction mostly in jet fuel, also you
know, given the flight cancellations in
the Middle East, but also in like
naphtha, LPG, so steam crackers, you
know, things or units that would
actually make plastics effectively,
right? So, again, the the challenge we
have in this is that because this is
hitting Asia first, it's a really long
time lag before it hits the west, right?
Whether it's the products itself, jet
fuel, gasoline, diesel, or the end
products, it's you know, the clothes
we're wearing or all the kind of plastic
goods that we consume. And that's why
there's so much complacency in the
market. But yes, we have seen the demand
destruction and I don't think it's over
yet. Amrita, how long is that lag time
before maybe you're going to see ongoing
higher oil prices and higher products
product prices even if the ceasefire
were to hold today?
Yeah, look, the damage in some ways has
been done, right? We we were all kind of
talking about this big surplus in oil
markets. Our surplus was definitely not
as big as some of the US investment
banks out there, but still it was a big
surplus. That's been wiped out now. All
that Russian oil that was on water
floating around, that's now gone.
India's taken all of that. So, for the
oil market, we're pretty much starting
from scratch, right? So, we are going to
be trading in a higher range.
But, more importantly to your question
that when do we see that impact, it's
about a 2 and 1/2 month lag because Asia
would be buying the crude in March that
arrives in April. They process the or
they make the products and then they
send it west. So, the earliest the west
is going to feel the real pinch is May,
really into June. So, we haven't seen
the actual shortages being felt yet.
Amrita Sen of Energy Aspects, thank you
so much for your insights. Interesting
also that Delta saw second quarter fuel
costs increasing more than $2 billion at
the high end, highlighting how airlines
already pricing this in and adjusting
capacity and prices as a result.
But, amazing. Look at that report. They
beat on earnings. It's just a tribute to
corporate America, whether you're an
airline, a manufacturer, or a technology
company's ability to generate uh you
know,
margin and under all sorts of
circumstances.
>> And earning season kicks off in earnest
next week. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's a Bloomberg Brief with
You Hadera on Niharika. Hi Lisa.
President Donald Trump announcing a
two-week ceasefire last night. The deal
is subject to Tehran reopening the
Strait of Hormuz. The president is
calling Iran's 10-point plan workable
for negotiations and saying the US will
assist in allowing safe passage through
the strait.
The IMF is poised to cut its forecast
for global growth as a result of the war
in Iran. Managing Director Kristalina
Georgieva says the conflict has
triggered a negative supply shock. The
new figures will be released at the IMF
meeting in Washington next week.
And Delta shares surging even more after
earnings up 12% in the pre-market. The
airline reporting better than expected
quarterly results. Be well, due to the
war, Delta now expecting to incur more
than $2 billion in higher fuel costs
through June. The carrier is sticking to
its previous full year profit forecast
due to uncertainty. That's your
Bloomberg brief, Lisa. Thank you so
much, Yohai. Up next, all eyes on
energy.
So, right now, my view on inflation is
we're looking at an inflation rate for
the year as a whole of something like 2
and 3/4% but of course it depends what
happens with energy prices. Lindsey
Piegza of Stifel joins next as we talk
about the potential bleed through to
consumer prices. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance Morning.
Welcome back as we assess a new
landscape following the ceasefire
agreement that was announced last night
ahead of that 8:00 p.m. deadline. We're
looking at stocks absolutely ripping led
by tech and small caps. Those shares
both up about more than 3 and 1/2% in
pre-market trading. S&P futures up 2.7%.
It is all being driven by oil prices.
Oil plunging after people seeing a
reprieve potentially some of the
pressures. You're seeing a 14.3% decline
in Brent, a 16.4%
on the near term contract of crude. And
we're continuing to get commentary from
a number of different companies. We got
Delta earnings.
>> They beat across the line, however, they
did not necessarily increase their full
year forecast and talked about a 2
billion hit to some of the increase in
oil costs for the second quarter. Now,
Exxon coming out saying that they see a
6% hit to first quarter production
versus a fourth quarter on Mid East on
the Mid East conflict. Real question
here about the actual physical damage
that has already been incurred by a
number of different oil companies both
in the region and outside of the region
that have assets there. given this has
been going on for quite a while, Julian.
Yeah, look, and and this just shows you
that, you know, for the most part, the
oil companies trade more bullishly as as
the the spot oil price rises.
But at the end of the day, the
operational difficulties that a company
like that has, in some respects, are
even more extreme than a company in
another industry. And as a CEO, you've
got to deal with this in in various
different ways. But it also shows that
the physical constraints are there. And
potentially, it's going to take time
before this all gets worked through,
both when it comes to the damage being
done to oil facilities, as well as just
the backlog, as somebody just now was
talking about.
>> I think you measure the repair in terms
of months or maybe even years, not days.
Which is a reason why people are trying
to game out exactly what kind of
inflationary read-through there is,
especially if there isn't necessarily
the same hit to growth. Under
surveillance this morning, all eyes on
energy.
I expect headline inflation to actually
be elevated, you know, in the middle of
this year. Right now, my view on
inflation is we're looking at inflation
rate for the year as a whole of
something like 2 and 3/4%. But of
course, it depends what happens with
energy prices. I think this monetary
policy is exactly where it needs to be,
and then we can we can respond if the
situation changes. Here's the latest.
Plunging oil prices adding to bets the
Fed could still cut rates later this
year. Pressures from the energy shock
remaining despite crude falling below
triple digits. Lindsey Piegza of Stifel
writing the domestic economy is not
strong enough to perpetually withstand
elevated energy prices. Lindsey joins us
now. Lindsey, what a 24 hours. What do
you make now of the inflationary
pressures? Should the ceasefire
potentially hold?
Well, that that's the big question.
There's still a number of unknowns when
we're talking about the impact of higher
energy prices, whether or not the
ceasefire does hold, whether or not we
see the Strait of Hormuz reopen in its
entirety. But, what we know is that the
faster the oil markets are able to
normalize, this will mitigate the
prolonged impact of elevated energy
prices filtering out into not just the
domestic economy, but of course the
global economy. But, it all hinges on
whether or not we see energy markets
return to a more normal functionality.
There is a feeling, Lindsey, that there
still is going to be an inflationary
read-through, especially because there's
a lag time before some of the products
from around the world make their way to
consumers. Diesel prices still
incredibly elevated relative to where
they were, say, 6 months ago. At what
point are we looking at either a
permanently higher inflation rate that
the Fed just accepts, or potentially a
Fed that is not willing to ease rates
even in the face of some
evolving slack in the labor market?
Well, the conditions were already going
to prove very difficult for the Fed to
talk about any additional accommodation
unless we saw a material deterioration
in labor market conditions or a market
deceleration in inflation. Now, you
layer on the risk of this global,
perpetually prolonged, global energy
price shock, and this simply reaffirms
the position of the Fed on the sideline
for a prolonged period of time. Now, as
you mentioned, there is a sizable lag in
terms of oil filtering through to not
just gas prices, but the broader
economy. So, we will continue to see
upward pressure in inflation in the
coming months. Again, which will
reiterate the Fed's need to remain on
the sideline. But, the Fed is very
unlikely to react to higher energy
prices if there's any whiff of a
temporary or transitory nature of these
pressures. Remember, this is a committee
that has been tolerant of above-trend,
above-target inflation for years. And
so, this time around will be a very
similar to that. The Fed not necessarily
even opening the door to a a serious
conversation about reversing course, but
again, simply solidifying the Fed on the
sidelines, sitting on its hands until we
hopefully do see some reprieve from a
more normalized energy market.
So, when you look at the next 12 months,
Lindsey, which is the bigger risk right
now based on the oil price spike, growth
or inflation?
Oh, right now it's inflation. Because
remember the the domestic economy is
starting from a position of relative
strength. We did have a relatively solid
growth profile, a relatively resilient
consumer, still positive investment
flows, uh gains in productivity as a
result of this massive expansion and
adoption of technology. So, the US
economy was relatively well positioned
to withstand at least a temporary shock,
but the starting point from inflation
was already elevated. We were already
materially above the Fed's 2% target as
we have been for years. And so, not only
does this speak to the notion that the
Fed stopped short of a sufficiently
restrictive level of policy the first
time around, but it does leave the Fed
in a position to increasingly focus on
elevated prices, that side of the dual
mandate, as we do continue to enter this
uh unknown period of higher inflation.
Just quickly, Lindsey, how important is
CPI for you and frankly for the Fed
coming out on Friday?
It's uh uh
unusual that the CPI report will take
precedence over the PCE, the Fed's
preferred measure of inflation, but that
is the February report. The CPI on on
Friday will give us the first look at
how these higher energy prices are
seeping out into the broader economy via
transportation, via food, via the
manufacturing component. And so, this
will be a significant read if we do see
that headline jump over 1% on a monthly
basis, ticking higher to a
3.7%. This is going to be a significant
wake-up call for the Fed and again
reiterate the fact that the Fed will be
on the sideline for a prolonged period
of time. Lindsey Piegza of Stifel, thank
you so much for that. Julian Emanuel, it
seems like people came into the year
saying the Fed was going to cut rates by
a couple of times. Now people are
looking at this and saying given the
fact the US can weather all of this and
talking about how strong those earnings
are, could we be at neutral right now?
Potentially. That's not our base case.
We still think there will be one,
perhaps two rate cuts
to the end of the year. The one thing we
do know and we have thought all along is
that the concept of the Fed hiking in
2026 was, is, and will be preposterous.
Taking a step back, what does it do to
markets, the deepest, most liquid
markets, and people's confidence in
them? If everything can change on a
dime. We were talking about how
reminiscent this moment is to what we
saw last year, at almost the exact same
time, with Liberation Day and then some
sort of pivot point. How much does that
undermine confidence?
>> Well, it it look, it and again, this is
a unique time we're living in. Multiples
are elevated because liquidity by and
large has been very high and technology,
the the promise of AI is is there.
Productivity has been increasing, but
along with that, because so much is
dependent on policy in the short term,
volatility is higher. We have to learn
to live with it. Julian Emanuel, thank
you so much for spending the morning
with us. Always wonderful to have you on
the show. As we look at markets that are
absolutely ripping after a ceasefire was
announced heading into the 8:00 p.m.
deadline last night. Led by small caps,
led by the Kospi, led by European
equities seeing one of their best days
going back to 2022 with oil prices
plunging the most since the height of
the 2020 pandemic. Coming up next, Alex
Altman of Barclays, Seth Jones of CSIS,
Scott Modell of Rapidan and Rapidan
Energy, and Earl Davis of FIMO. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
This is a big hit to consumers and
households and businesses.
>> We're seeing the risks manifest
themselves on both sides. Inflation is
fundamental for a more optimistic
macroeconomic outlook. The risk is that
inflation expectations begin to unwind.
We uh do not see March core inflation
being all that much higher than it was
in in February. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoerdern.
Good morning. Live from New York.
Welcome to the second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance. A 2-week ceasefire
propping up risk assets around the world
with many questions remaining. Sending
oil prices tumbling the most since the
pandemic. Iran saying traffic can go
through the Strait of Hormuz with some
key caveats. Analysts searching for the
details of the agreement to understand
how quickly shipping can resume. Right
now, markets are not waiting for
anything. There is a complete rally
rip-roaring across the world, which you
see in the US. Uh you see futures
inflecting upward led by the small caps,
led by the uh big tech names. 3.4% gain
on Nasdaq futures, 3.6% gain on the
Russell 2000. When you take a look at
the rest of the world, it's an even
bigger rally, especially in some of the
areas that have been most volatile. The
Kospi now up almost 7% on the day after
being beaten up in the wake of fears
around Southeast Asia and Asia more
particularly tied to oil prices. The
Nikkei up more than 5%. The DAX up
almost 5% for one of the biggest days
that we've seen going back to 2022.
In the bond space, a real bid in.
Possibly inflation will not put a rate
hike back on the table. And across the
board, particularly the front end around
the world, you are seeing yields tumble.
3.73% down five basis points on the
two-year. Over in the UK and over in
Germany, yields down more than 20 basis
points at the front end. And all of this
tied to oil prices. When you take a look
at crude, WTI and Brent tumbling more
than 10%
down 13.9%
for Brent, down 13% for WTI after
expecting maybe a reprieve to some of
the violence as well as some of the
blockages for a lot of the oil tankers.
We have an incredible hour coming up.
Alex Altman of Barclays is going to be
joining us for the full hour, which is a
wonderful thing. With that relief rally
sweeping through global markets, he's
feeling incredibly vindicated. Seth
Jones of CSIS with Iran delivering a
10-point plan to end the war. And
Rapidan Energy Group CEO Scott Modell as
crude prices drop back below $100 a
barrel. We begin this hour with our top
story, stocks surging following the
announcement of a two-week ceasefire
between the US and Iran. Bloomberg's
Joumanna Bouta Brossechi joins us now
from Dubai. Joumanna, what do we know
about this agreement and how quickly
traffic can get back going through the
strait?
Yeah, well,
it's a bit of a turnaround in sentiment
from where we were about 24 hours ago,
Lisa. And yesterday we were reporting
that there were perhaps little chances
of a diplomatic breakthrough. But indeed
in the early hours of this morning,
exactly 90 minutes before his deadline,
President Trump announced that they had
agreed to a two-week ceasefire. That was
shortly followed up by a post by the
Iranian Foreign Minister as well, saying
that they too had agreed to a temporary
ceasefire. But, and this is key, uh the
opening of the strait would be
conditional on vessels getting approval
from the Iranian armed forces. So,
again, a key stipulation here. Iran once
again reasserting their right to control
over that key waterway, which is a
non-starter for many countries and
especially Gulf Arab nations and many
ministries of foreign affairs this
morning, including the likes of Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, have put out comments
saying that they endorse the ceasefire,
but would like to see a full reopening
of the strait similar to how it was
before the war even started. So, this is
the premise for for the ceasefire. It is
very tenuous and even just in the last
couple of hours, we've reported on
incoming missiles being intercepted over
here in the UAE, drones being
intercepted in Kuwait as well. The
Iranian state media saying that around
10:00 a.m. local time, their refinery
got targeted, too. So, again, some
question marks about whether all sides
are holding up their side of the deal
here.
There will be in-person discussions
later this week that has been confirmed
by Islamabad and is expected to take
place on Friday. Unclear who exactly is
going to be attending from the Iranian
side, but to go back to what you were
saying, we find ourselves in a situation
now where, in addition to all of the
other military objectives that the US
had set out to achieve from this war,
we've got an additional problem now,
which is the straits. Exactly who is
controlling the straits? And for the
foreseeable future, Iran wants to retain
that control. They There are reports
that they would like to process a fee
for ships that are passing through.
Clearly a non-starter as well. So, that
is the starting point for those
negotiations that are going to take
place towards the end of the week.
Whether the two sides can actually come
together
for a more sustainable cessation of
hostilities is a big question that's
still hanging over the region. But for
now, relief that we've avoided the
worst-case scenario. Jamana Fraschetti,
thank you so much, as always, for that.
Joining us now, I am so pleased to say
is global head of equities track
tactical strategies at Barclays, Alex
Alton here in the studio. Alex,
wonderful to see you. Thank you for
being here. So, you wrote a quote that I
want to read in your recent research. It
has been said that knowledge is to know
that a tomato is a fruit, but wisdom is
to know that a tomato does not go in a
fruit salad. How does that relate to the
moment that we're in?
It's It's actually a quote from from a
journalist in the 1950s in in the UK.
So, I wish I could say it was mine, but
I'm now adopting it as mine. Why Why
does it relate to today? It relates to
today because over the past month we've
had a huge amount of knowledge thrown at
the market for an event which I would
say people weren't necessarily experts
on. And even if they were experts on
Middle East geopolitics, they weren't
necessarily an expert on on on Donald
Trump. And so, you had this sort of X
factor when trying to navigate that. And
the point being is is that for all of
that knowledge, did they necessarily
have the wisdom to understand how this
negotiation process was actually
unfolding behind the scenes because of
the brouhaha coming from both the
administration then also from the
Iranian side. And I think that actually
demonstration by what happening back
doors from Pakistan,
China is a clear illustration actually a
lot of people had a lot of knowledge,
but they're not sure they necessarily
had that much wisdom. So, you've been
buying. You were bullish and
constructive on equities ahead of this
believing that there would be some sort
of resolution that things wouldn't get
to the most extreme levels and that
frankly oil prices would eventually go
down. How do you feel today looking at
how much assets have rallied, looking at
how much oil prices have come down, and
deciding whether it's worth it now or
whether kind of all of that has been
given up in terms of a premium? So,
let's look at risk assets first, right?
Which is This has been going on for a
month. I mean, really we were starting
talking about Iran right at the end of
January. That's when it sort of all
kicked off and then obviously the war
actually commenced at the end of
February. So, because this has been
going on for a while, it's very hard to
believe that we're going to unwind the
risk reduction process that's been going
on for a month in the span of a day. So,
we we look at a lot of positioning
metrics. All of them are kind of
pointing to the same thing, which is
hedge fund discretionary net exposures
dropped dramatically. Vol control and
CTA exposures across major US indices
and global indices reduced not only just
to to reduce length but got short. Um
and and we we know for a fact that
sentiment got pretty bombed out. I mean,
there was a lot of There was a lot of
doomers and panickens and and and
individuals on social media that were
and still doubling down today in the
ceasefire won't hold. So, the point
being from a risk asset perspective is
that our perspective is this can really
overshoot to the upside. And remember
also, earnings revisions have been
positive. This is something that Venus
team in in research have been basically
talking about and credit to them, you
know, they upgraded their S&P forecast
in Barclays research all the way through
this because the earnings revisions have
been positive. So, right now the S&P is
still only trading on a lower multiple
today than it was in May of last year in
the wake of the resolution around around
liberation day.
The room for us to move further to the
top side even with a precarious
ceasefire, I think is still quite There
are a lot of There are a lot of moving
pieces here and I would love to dive in.
So, on one hand you're talking about
earnings. A lot of it is concentrated in
the United States in particular. We just
got Delta, robust backdrop, beating on
earnings even with the potential
overhang of higher oil prices. We do see
this pretty much across the board and
earnings will kick off in earnest next
week. What about say in Asia where
you're seeing that pullback that you saw
that huge pullback in Southeast Asia and
now that rip over in South Korea. What
about in Germany in Europe which has
been completely avoided by so many
people during the entirety of this
conflict?
>> Yes, so look, I think that there's a
natural reflexive appetite to go back
into global equities. Remember that was
the story for the all of January and
most of February as well. I think the
challenge is today and kind of get tied
into your question about where oil
prices go. We're probably going to
expect a a slower normalization of oil
prices. Just naturally there's going to
be frictions in the the of Hormuz. And
also, let's not forget, you know, one of
the reasons why we've been so bullish on
commodities, energy included, is because
it's kind of every man for himself now.
We need strategic reserves of not just
not just energy, but also for all
commodities now. So, if that applies to
like creating more demand and more
strategic reserve rebuilding and there's
a higher price tag for oil and energy
products,
then for net energy import regions,
which is of course Asia, which is of
course Europe, then it's going to be
more of a challenge in terms of the
earning trajectory for those regions.
Meanwhile, we saw this morning Exxon
says that it's seeing 6% of its
worldwide output shut as a result of the
media's conflict. There will be the
rebuilds that will be required on the
heels of this. Does that make you even
more bullish on some of the energy
related assets in equity markets,
particularly in areas like the United
States or say even in
even the Middle East? I think we've got
to work off the work off the the
starting point, which is energy's been
the best performing sector year-to-date
by a dramatic margin, as you would
expect. And so, there's been some
momentum chasing in there. It's
basically one of the only portfolio
hedges that actually you could that has
worked over the past few months. We
should expect some near-term giveback,
but that's going to going to rotate back
into other part of the commodity complex
that uses energy as an input cost for
producing aluminum, for producing copper
and so on and so forth. So, I would
expect those base metals uh and and the
like to actually be the real commodity
driver as a reflexive move back up at
the expense of energy, but I think
ultimately the trajectory for all of the
commodity complexes is actually going to
be higher thematically. Has anything
changed from February 27th to today?
Even if say the ceasefire does hold, can
we go back to where we were on February
27th when it comes to both oil prices
and when it comes to also this
expectation of where risk could come
from given headline volatility that has
been extreme?
I think we have to acknowledge something
has changed, right? And one of the
things is there's going to be a
lingering perception of the reduction in
US hegemony, right? And so, the the the
the
of the global world order is that really
necessary new something is maybe has
been going on for a little bit of of a
while so that there is that from a
market related perspective we've got to
probably accept that the price deck of
oil is higher than it was at least near
term and the normalization process just
mechanically will take a while we we
lost some production because of attacks
the Straits of Hormuz are not fully open
we don't have full full shipments going
through that but we do have
countermeasures of course we have the
East West pipeline we've got the
Fujairah pipeline we've got things that
a can at least mitigate us near term so
I think ultimately we don't know and I
think other commentators have said this
we don't know the full effect of the
earnings hits we have to acknowledge
that probably in a reduction or I don't
think we're going to go back to 22 times
S&P forward earnings but for example we
could comfortably go back to say 20 and
a half 21 times still putting in a
discount and that's still going to get
us back to all-time highs. Alex Altman
you're going to be sticking with us for
the entire hour which is a wonderful
thing right now let's head over and get
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahaira and Yahaira. Hi Lisa
President Donald Trump announcing a
two-week ceasefire subject to Tehran
reopening the Strait of Hormuz the
president is calling Iran's 10-point
plan workable for negotiations and says
the US will assist in allowing safe
passage through the Strait of Hormuz.
Ecuador's president Daniel Noboa says he
would welcome US troops to help confront
the security crisis in his nation
speaking to our own Anne-Marie Hordern
Noboa said quotes it's international
collaboration against crime and a US
troop deployment could happen as early
as this year.
And Intel announcing it's a joining Elon
Musk's effort to develop semiconductors
for Tesla SpaceX and xAI Intel will help
the so-called Terafab project refactor
the technology in a chip factory which
typically helps make semiconductors more
powerful or reliable that's your
Bloomberg brief Lisa. Thank you so much
Yohaira. Up next, a last-ditch deal.
All I can tell you is they're begging to
make a deal. If there is no deal, we are
going to hit each and every one of their
electric generating plants. We have to
have a deal that's acceptable to me. And
part of that deal is going to be we want
free traffic of oil. Seth Jones of CSIS
joining next to this is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
Seeing a rip-roaring rally in risk
assets this morning after yesterday's
ceasefire announcement, led by equities
most notably in Asia and Europe. Here in
the US, S&P futures a little bit less
excited, 2.7% gain, still a remarkable
bounce after some of the pessimism in
markets. Two-year yields over in
Germany, over in the UK, absolutely
tumbling, down 23 basis points in
Germany at with 2.49%
and expectation that maybe central banks
will not have to hike rates. And that is
particularly relevant in the European
region. Two-year yields in the US down
six basis points and crude tumbling, 14%
decline on Brent $93.98.
Right now, we want to head over to this
idea of what has actually transpired
given the fact that we have gotten this
ceasefire under surveillance this
morning, a last-ditch deal.
We want to knock out every single thing
they have. Now, it's possible that we'll
make a deal before that. All I can tell
you is they're begging to make a deal.
So, let's see what happens. If there is
no deal, we are going to hit each and
every one of their electric generating
plants very hard. We have to have a deal
that's acceptable to me. Here's the
latest, the US and Iran agreeing to a
two-week ceasefire with Tehran vowing to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now. Tyler, we're
expecting a press conference at 8:00
a.m. Eastern in about an hour or 45
minutes time. What kind of positioning
will the administration say in terms of
how this deal was reached and what's
ahead?
Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, we're
really expecting the administration to
tout tactical successes of the military
operation so far considering that there
are still some big lingering questions
about what exactly is going to transpire
when we see if and when we see a
longer-term agreement because President
Trump is pulling back his threats at
least for now, but we heard from the
Vice President J.D. Vance earlier today
who set to lead the new round of
negotiations calling this truce quote
fragile. Still, the VP does maintain
that the US has obtained its full
military objectives amid questions about
whether or not some of those top US
demands including limits on Iran's
ballistic and nuclear missile programs
will be included in a longer-term deal
because of course all of this is
contingent on the reopening of the
Strait of Hormuz, but as Iran
continues to signal intent to influence
the waterway, that really could
complicate the bid for a longer-term
agreement because President Trump has
said himself that he has agreed to
negotiate on the basis of Iran's top 10
demands, but it's our understanding that
many of those demands are unlikely terms
for the US and Israel to agree to
including assurances that there would be
no more attacks on Iran and that Iran
could have sovereignty over the Strait.
Now, President Trump himself says that
the US will help ensure traffic through
the waterway. He said in a post that the
US would be quote hanging around amid a
more than 800 ship backlog, but we
really know that President Trump wants
to see allies help when it comes to the
waterway. We did hear from the French
President Macron earlier today who
previewed we could expect about a 15
country coalition to deploy what he is
calling a strictly defensive mission in
coordination with Iran when it comes to
the Strait of Hormuz. Lisa, I will
quickly point out that NATO Secretary
General Mark Rutte will be at the White
House today. I would expect to hear a
lot of rhetoric out of the White House
about putting some more pressure on our
allies as the ceasefire takes hold.
Bloomberg's Tyler Keddell, thank you so
much for the update. Joining us now is
someone who's worked in the Defense
Department, who's worked with military
forces in the US, has extensive
experience in this entire region. Seth
Jones of CSIS, thank you so much for
being with us. I want to start with your
response to the ceasefire, how realistic
you see it holding for after that 2-week
and even the entire 2-week period.
Well, look, I think it's helpful that
there has been there have been
negotiations between the US and and the
Iranians. I think it's helpful that
and a step forward that that we are at a
ceasefire.
I just think it even in talking to
Israeli officials recently, I think they
do not expect the Iranians or Iranian
partner forces
to abide by any deal over the medium to
long term. They were already sirens
going off in Tel Aviv last night for
potential incoming Iranian rockets. So,
I do have low expectations that this is
going to stick over the next 2 weeks.
So, what do you think has actually been
accomplished, Seth?
Well, it's hard to say. I mean, when
when I look at the 10-point plan that
the Iranians have put together,
most of those
at least many of the points are
completely unacceptable for the US over
the long run. They are the withdrawal of
all US
forces, particularly combat forces from
the region, Iranian control of the
Strait, Um, uh, and a number of other
things, uh, allowing Iran to have, uh,
missiles and drone programs and then
compensation
um, for the damage that Iran has
incurred over the past several weeks of
the conflict. I mean, I don't think any
There's There's no realistic expectation
that the US is going to provide
compensation. Probably work Gulf states
along those lines. I think there's a lot
to hammer out.
Seth, um, on on that point in terms of a
lot to hammer out, realistically, what
do you think could be achieved from that
10-point plan? What What do you think
are the
the lowest hurdles to beat here?
Well, I think the lowest hurdles, uh,
would be some kind of a joint
arrangement involving countries in the
region, uh, particularly ones that are
on the Strait of Hormuz, that share, uh,
the any tolls that, um,
that are charged to commercial ships
going through the region and potentially
also some security of commercial vessels
that go through the region, so it's not
all on the US's shoulders.
But, it'll hinge on, really, uh, how
much trust, uh, any of these countries,
including the US, have that the Iranians
won't fire on commercial vessels and I
think we'll have to see.
And then, you you obviously talked about
the toll the toll
That's toll booth not being a realistic
prospect. Could maybe Could you talk a
little bit about what's on on the
sanction relief side or also the
offshore frozen funds as well, which
could maybe, um, provide some some
compensation in in lieu of that toll
booth instead?
Yeah, I mean, it's possible that, uh,
that's there could be some sanctions
relief, uh, for Iran. I mean, the
challenge is that, uh,
both the the current Trump
administration and even the the Biden
administration had pretty tough
sanctions against Iran. Uh,
I I find it unlikely that the vast
majority of those sanctions are going to
be um, relieved
with the prospect of Iran continuing to
have a range of partner forces and
and and pretty significant capabilities,
but there could be some sanctions relief
that comes with with any kind of a
longer-term deal. Seth, do you have a
sense of how closely aligned the US is
with the GCC, with Saudi Arabia, and
United Arab Emirates, and Qatar, and the
other nations in the region?
Well, I think they're they they are
aligned in some ways.
Um
I think that you know, one challenge
right now is
some Gulf states appear to have openly
called for the end of the
regime in Iran that does not look like
it's going to take place.
The supreme leader's son is in power at
the moment. The regime is largely the
the Islamic Revolution Guard is still in
place, but I do think there is a joint
viewed get the straight open. I mean, I
think that's the single most important
issue I think that the US shares. It's a
common interest between the Gulf states
and the US. Is there a sense of what
it's going to take, Seth, in terms of
have we actually taken ground troops off
the table? Have we actually taken a
further more aggressive stance in the
region and and and put that aside for
the time being?
I don't think we've taken
the prospect of using either ground or
naval forces completely off the table.
They're still in the region. The US has
naval ships that could be used.
The US also has ground forces that could
be used, whether it's to take islands in
the
in and around the Strait of Hormuz or on
the shoreline of Iran. So, I think it if
the US wants to escalate, if it does not
feel that Iran is abiding by any kind of
a deal,
it could
it could use those forces, either naval
or ground, as a back. I mean, the
problem is there it'd be risky. You do
risk naval forces getting shot at with
anti-ship cruise missiles coming from
Iran. So, there are some risks involved.
Seth Jones of CSIS, thank you so much
for being with us this morning. We are
getting a truth social post from
President Trump. As we parse through the
market moves, talking about what has
been agreed on and what hasn't been
agreed on. He's saying the United States
will work closely with Iran, which we
have determined has gone through what
will be a very productive regime change.
There will be no enrichment of uranium,
and the United States will working with
Iran dig up and remove all of the deeply
buried nuclear dust. It is now and has
been under very exacting satellite
surveillance. Nothing has been touched
from the data of the attack. Going on
and saying many of the 15 points have
already been agreed to. This to me,
Alex, is a real key question here, and
you raised this as well. Talking about
potentially tariff and sanctions relief
with Iran, that seems plausible.
Enriching of uranium, not so much.
Yeah, I think that this has definitely
been a red line for for the
administration, and of course for Israel
as well. It's just that there's no
enrichment at all, and you know, this
3.7% enrichment grade, which is for
civilian use versus the 60% highly
enriched stuff, which is sitting
somewhere under under a pile of rubble,
allegedly. Yeah, that that's just going
to be untenable for the Western world,
and certainly for Israel. So, you know,
I think that actually putting that on
the table right away and just making
that the red line, I think is important
not to lose sight of for the market.
>> Well, meanwhile, the market is cheering
the idea of a ceasefire coming up. Rapid
an energy group CEO Scott Modell with
oil seeing its biggest one-day drop
going back to the pandemic. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
A sense of calm easing over markets
leading to a roaring rally. You're
looking at S&P futures near session
highs right now, up 2.8% after some of
the gains that we've seen I'm back to
frankly yesterday at the at the close
when we after the 8:00 p.m. deadline.
Meanwhile, the KOSPI just closing up
6.9%
surging on the heels of some sort of
ceasefire deal and a 5.2% a gain on the
DAX. Meanwhile, what you're seeing in
oil prices is really driving everything.
Crude WTI plunging more than 10% 14%
declines in both the Brent and WTI. A
real sense of calm. Now getting some
more details from President Trump
putting out on Truth Social saying the
US is discussing sanctions and tariff
relief with Iran and talking about some
of that 15-point deal, some of the
aspects of which have already been
agreed upon. 2 hours away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers. With
you Yahaira Anand. Yahaira. Hi Lisa. The
airlines were already up on ceasefire
relief, but they are up even higher now
after Delta reported earnings. The
airline beating expectations with strong
premium and loyalty demand helping to
cushion a more than $2 billion fuel hit
it expects to incur through June due to
the Iran conflict, but this idea that we
will see a resolution to this conflict
is helping to lift the entire sector
with United and American also up some
12%. Turning to the semiconductor and
memory chip stocks, they are also rising
a bit of a relief rally here with the
ceasefire bringing investors back into
risk and back into this AI trade. And as
tensions ease, that could also mean some
relief for helium supply out of Qatar.
Qatar. That had been a big concern for
the market since it is such a critical
part of the chip making process. And we
end on the miners tracking the rise in
gold and other precious metals with gold
pushing back around $4,800
an ounce after that ceasefire was
announced. So you are seeing names like
BHP up 6% Rio Tinto up nearly 6% and
also Newmont Mining also up. Lisa. Thank
you so much, Yahaira. On our radar this
morning as we look to that ceasefire,
the US and Iran agreeing to a two-week
ceasing in the fighting. President
Donald Trump announcing the deal on
social media, suspending all strikes in
exchange for the quote complete and
immediate reopening of the Strait of
Hormuz. Pakistan emerging as a pivotal
mediator between the US and Iran
following a public appeal from Prime
Minister Shahbaz Sharif. Islamabad will
now host high-level delegations from
both the United States and Iran this
Friday. And NATO chief Mark Rutte
heading to the White House today for
high-stakes talks with President Donald
Trump. The visit coming as the president
is threatening to withdraw from NATO due
to allies refusing to back US military
strikes in Iran. Ongoing questions,
Alex, as we look ahead to exactly how
this will be resolved. One thing you've
been really good about though, even if
you have the best intel on just how
complicated the situation is, how global
powers are rearranging, that has not
influenced exactly how to make money in
markets. Why has that been such the case
so far this year and frankly for the
past couple of years? I mean, it's a
very good question. I'm not sure there's
necessarily a an easy answer to unpack.
My suspicion is is that some of it is
just naturally the the forward nature
looking of markets. So, they're not
necessarily always reacting to the here
and now. For example, I think it was Was
it last week or the week before we had a
huge spike in oil one day and then the
S&P was unchanged that day and everyone
was scratching their head. So, that
sensitivity is changing all the time.
The second thing which I think is really
important is just to think about how the
the growth in asset management,
especially here in the US, hasn't
necessarily been directional money. I
mean, yes, you've got huge retail
exposure in mutual funds and ETFs and
whatnot. But actually a huge amount of
growth has come from a multi-manager.
It's just gone from like a $350 billion
AUM block to a trillion dollars.
Remember that's unlevered. So, leverage
is orders of magnitude larger. And
that's generally running quite risk
neutral in terms of it's not necessarily
just long stuff. It's long and it's
short, running a lot of RV strategies.
So that when positions get unwound, it's
not necessary it's not necessarily
impacting the market in the same way
that it would have done when it's just a
risk-off correlated one and everything
goes up or down. Which is the reason why
people are watching the oil price move,
seeing them move in equities, and
saying, at least in your opinion, things
can go a lot higher because people are
not positioned for a sustained decrease
in some of the tensions globally. And
there's a lot of money and liquidity in
the system. Yeah, I think look, I think
if you've de-risked substantially, your
point about liquidity is is very valid.
We've still got a discussion points
going on in the background that haven't
been resolved, whether it's what's
happening with the Fed, what's happening
with AI disruption, remember that? We
were talking about that in January.
I would love to go back and talk about
that and not have to talk about Iran
anymore. And there's obviously
negatives, too, such as private credit,
which is still lingering in the
background. So yeah, there's a lot of
other themes that that people are going
to have to sort of roll their sleeves up
on again. But I think the bottom line is
is that Iran is just a huge sword of
Damocles hanging over the market,
removing some of that just naturally
just springs um risk back. Meanwhile,
there is a sprinkling of risk still in
the market. Another Truth Social post by
President Trump saying that any country
supplying military equipment weapons to
Iran will immediately be tariffed on any
goods sold to the United States of
America by 50% effective immediately.
Meanwhile, there are reports coming from
Israel that the nation just carried out
the largest attack yet on Hezbollah in
Lebanon. So both of these things coming
together highlighting the risks that
still do remain for the tentative
ceasefire as well as just how much a
number of the nations are angling ahead
of that. Oil, meanwhile, is still taking
their cues from the ceasefire, trading
back below $100 a barrel, seeing its
biggest one-day drop since the pandemic.
Bloomberg's Anthony DiPaolo joins us
now. Anthony, thank you so much for
being with us. What do we know about any
of the ships in the Strait of Hormuz
that have been marooned there? How many
of them are getting through? What the
discussions are like with the Iranian
authorities?
Good morning. Yeah, well, so far, uh
none to very few are getting through.
We've been watching a few tankers that
were linked to Iran or appear to be
linked to Iran anyway,
that were that were looking to pass
through earlier this morning. There has
been a trickle of vessels going through
anyway that Iran has been letting
through,
but in terms of the of the major bulk of
vessels there, that's cargo ships, oil
tankers, tankers with refined products
on them. Those are are are still
in the Persian Gulf locked in behind the
Strait of Hormuz and they're not coming
out. So, we are
watching closely to see what happens
with that, but we're getting a lot of
skepticism
and a lot of question marks from the
shippers and from the insurers there.
They want more details. They want to
know exactly what's going on. Remember,
we have this ceasefire based on
negotiating
these points in these various plans, a
10-point plan, a 15-point plan.
And what we're hearing today from the
public statements, it seems like it
depends on who you're hearing from what
plan they're working on in terms of in
terms of the negotiations. So, we're
waiting to to get really some clarity on
how vessels can go through, what are the
security assurances for them, and what
are the financial terms? Do they need to
pay? Who do they need to pay? How do
they need to pay? So, really waiting to
see that before we see any meaningful
movement go through.
And that's what we're hearing from the
traders, from the shippers, and we need
to see that that backlog cleared before
we can see new oil production ramped up
in the Gulf that will add new more new
oil to the market. Anthony Di Paola,
thank you so much for that from Jupai.
Rapidan Energy Group CEO Scott Modell
writing, "The two sides remain very far
apart. Barring a dramatic unilateral
concession or an unlikely meeting in the
middle, expect a resumption of
hostilities when the two-week window
closes. Scott joins us now. Scott, thank
you so much for being with us. How do
you treat the ceasefire given your
belief that is likely to be short-lived?
Hi, good morning. Thank you.
The the ceasefire for us, I think it's
very interesting. Our our core view at
this point is that it doesn't work and
it reverses. I think Seth Jones said it
very nicely. He laid out several of the
reasons why we should be skeptical. The
sides are extremely far apart. There
really hasn't been an end to the to the
fighting and the shooting. I think
that's going to go on. I think you're I
think the Iranians are very thrilled
that the the that President Trump has
said
you essentially have control over the
Strait of Hormuz and we're willing to
use your 10-point plan as the basis as a
workable basis. I mean, they're
overjoyed at that, but they just don't
trust really what the what's coming from
out of this White House. I think they're
in a wait-and-see mode. When when I take
a step back and I think about how the
market is looking at this,
we were on the verge in mid-April of
heading towards 120 or 130 or higher as
paper and physical markets converged. I
think we could easily get back to that
because again, as you said, in our
belief, this is pretty tenuous. Given
the ceasefire that is agreed upon at
least tenuously right now, should it
last, how high should oil prices remain
just based on frictions that are ongoing
both in the region and frankly the
rebuild that needs to go on to some of
the facilities in the area?
You know, I think if you if the
ceasefire lasts and we start to see
something that looks workable and we
start to see something that
you know, resembles 20, 30, 40% of
pre-conflict flows to the Strait of
Hormuz and we don't see a resumption of
conflict. We don't see bombing here or
there, whether it's in Israel or
Bahrain. We Then I think you can start
to see you can sustain prices where they
are. I think the market needs to see
that for a while before we start to
either go back to where we were before
yesterday or we start to say, "Hey,
look. It looks like we can actually get
a real deal and go even lower." But, I
think it you know, it's very plausible
to see us in this 90 to $100 range for a
week or two as long as we either don't
tip over and this thing doesn't crash or
we get a deal. But, I I I think it's
very viable that we stay in this price
range, but I do think a lot of questions
that need to be answered before
everybody can breathe a sigh of relief
and say, "Now we can actually go back
down much lower and where crude will
sell off to a place where we will have
very little geopolitical risk priced in.
But, we have a long way to go before we
get to that place.
Scott, um specifically just on Iraq,
obviously there was a there was a deal
that was announced between Iran and Iraq
before this uh tentative ceasefire was
announced. Do you think that changes the
calculus for all prices at all? Because
obviously Iraq was producing 3 3 and 1/2
million barrels, uh a real swing factor
that's coming out of Hormuz.
I don't think it's a major I don't think
it it's a major factor, but I I do think
it's important. Um I you know, our
understanding is that there still are
fundamental problems in Iraq that will
prevent some production from coming
back, but it is a sign that uh Iran is
cutting deals. I think the market steps
back and says Iraq not being able to
export would would have been a very very
big problem. That they were able to
strike a deal, I think one it was very
sensible and rational to see Iran coming
together with a country like Iraq. Uh
they've worked long and they work
together and they have a very close
relationship. I think it gives some
floor under in terms of confidence
building that Iran is is somebody that
can reach reasonable deals. But, again,
there's so many other things swirling
around that offset that at this point.
>> Scott, is there any credence to the idea
that any kind of toll paid through the
Strait of Hormuz would be done in
Chinese renminbi?
There is, I will say this though, when I
step back and I we've been looking at
this for a long time. People will often
ask us, um, or this this Chinese-Iranian
partnership, uh, isn't is Iran in the
have they bought into the idea that
they're about helping China replace the
dollar with renminbi? And and everything
I've heard up until now is
not really. They don't want to do that.
If they have to, they'll take renminbi.
They will go along with it. There is a
real partnership there, but look, if
they can get euros or dollars, they
always prefer that. The Chinese-Iranian
relationship, I have to say, there's
more to it than meets the eye. It's not
a clean strategic partnership, but
rather, uh,
there's distrust at the foundation of
it, and I think the Iranians will do
what they can to maintain control over
the strait and balance their equities
with China and others. But really, uh,
when it comes to dealing with the China,
they're very distrustful, also, and I
think they say, "We don't want to go all
in with China." China is a is a partner
of convenience as they've been under so
severely under sanctions. But if if Iran
can actually break out and get to a
place where Trump is President Trump is
really easing sanctions, moving closer
to a deal, I think you're going to see
that partnership change, and I think
you'll see more of a balancing act. But
in the meantime, I think they will be
happy to take Chinese renminbi as they
have been for a very long time. But
again, it's not the ideal scenario for
them. Scott Modell of Rapidan Energy,
the CEO, thank you so much for being
with us. Alex, I was looking at the
renminbi, and the dollar is the weakest
versus the renminbi going back to March
of 2023. We saw this huge rise in the
renminbi strengthening versus other
currencies. How tradable is that? This
idea that China has a new face on the
global stage, and it's being represented
in markets? Well, I think that you have
to sort of differentiate between China
as a as a place on the world stage, and
then China as a capital market that you
can invest in. And you know, as a second
largest economy in the world, but
actually as a representation of global
capital markets, it's still a very small
percentage. So, I think that, you know,
from from the geopolitical stuff, great
dinner discussion.
Uh I think that from the from the market
allocation, I think China is there are
it is an interesting market, let's be
very clear. But, to access it has always
been not particularly straightforward.
You know, one of the things that we
really like with the with our our
tactical strategies team out in Asia is
actually just using surgical custom
baskets within China to access very,
very leading edge um uh uh thematic such
as robotics, AI infrastructure, you
know, um software, and so on and so
forth. It's the things that you just
can't get through the the typical index.
So, it's not exactly a wholesale sea
change necessarily from a market
positioning standpoint, but a bit on the
tactical side, which is what a lot of
people have been pointing to. We'll
continue that conversation. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here's your
Bloomberg Brief with Yahaira O'Neill and
Yahaira. Hi, Lisa. Strikes have been
reported across the Persian Gulf despite
the announcement of a US-Iran ceasefire
deal. The UAE said it responded to a
missile threats on Wednesday, and Kuwait
saying it's been dealing with intense
attacks from Iran throughout the day.
Negotiations are still in place
scheduled for Friday in Pakistan. Iran
confirming it will attend.
Shares of Exxon are falling 5.8% in the
pre-market after the energy giant said
its global production fell by 6% in the
first quarter due to the war. Half of
the outages were concentrated at an LNG
plant in Qatar that suffered damage.
Still, Exxon expects first quarter gains
of over $2 billion due to the spike in
energy prices.
And Moody's cutting the outlook on Blue
Owl to negative after quote
significantly higher than peer
redemption requests in the first
quarter. The move is part of ratings
agencies broader revision of its outlook
for private credit investment vehicles
to negative. That's your Bloomberg
Brief, Lisa. Thank you so much, Yohai.
Up next, reviving rate cut bets.
We actually think that the next move for
the Fed is is a cut rather than a hike.
I would focus uh less on how bad the
growth data is is going to be and more
about uh what the inflationary backdrop
is. Earl Davis of joins next. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
The rally continues as people look to a
ceasefire that could potentially be
durable. We are getting more details
from President Trump throughout the
morning talking about all things having
to do with a 15-point plan, most of
which he says have been agreed upon. S&P
futures at session highs, 2.8% gain, a
bigger gain on the Nasdaq and Russell
2000, 3 and 1/2 and 4% gains,
respectively, on futures. In the bond
space, 2-year, 10-year, 30-year yields,
all of them tumbling on the prospect
that there might be less inflation and
perhaps less of a reason for the Federal
Reserve to have to cut rates. Led by the
front end of the yield curve, 3.72%
in the United States, down six basis
points, a significantly bigger move over
in Europe. Under surveillance this
morning, reviving rate cut bets.
We actually think that the next move for
the Fed is is a cut rather than a hike.
I would focus uh less on how bad the
growth data is is going to be and more
about uh what the inflationary backdrop
is. Does this remain a supply-side
driven inflation shock, or does it morph
into something that is more uh
sustainable? Here's the latest, falling
oil prices pulling down Treasury yields.
Trade Traders betting easing energy
prices can keep Fed rate cuts on track.
Earl Davis of writing, "We expect
the relief rally to last 7 to 10 days on
pent-up demand, adding there will be a
significant amount of new credit
issuance, which should limit the extent
of the risk-on trades. Earl joins us now
for more. Earl, thank you so much for
being with us. What do you make of the
knee-jerk move, particularly at the
front of the yield curve in the United
States and in Europe?
Good morning. We actually love it. It
provides significant opportunity for an
active manager in volatility, and our
plan from the beginning of the year
remains exactly the same in regards to
yields.
The 10-year range for 2025 was 390 to
480. 435 is the midpoint. We are better
sellers below 40
435, which means we are in selling mode
right now, and we're better buyers above
435, which meant we went long
over long during the during the war
aspect. The interesting thing with the
ceasefire fire is that it doesn't reduce
market volatility. It actually increases
it. And the reason why it increases it
is because your range now is wider.
Instead of trading within a 10-point
range on duration,
you're now within a 20-point range or
30-point range on a shorter term basis.
So for us, we're better sellers here. We
We do believe we will see
um
if not new highs, we will test new highs
because driven by inflation and and
other aspects of of the negotiation.
Earl, do you think that we're going to
test new highs more significantly at the
front end or the long end as people
assess the inflationary push through to
the economy and frankly a Fed that might
be politically incentivized to keep
rates lower rather than higher?
Yeah, that that's a great question
because I I could foresee a parallel
move, but if I were to bet on one of
them, I'd say the long end.
But not long end 10-year yields. And the
reason why I say that, the whole move in
fixed income right now, like even
towards the higher yield, call it 440
and stuff, was all real rate based. It
wasn't break-even inflations. We never
saw break-even inflation go above uh
245. Where the previous high during
COVID was 302. So, we do believe the
next wave of selling or to make a new
high could be inflation driven, which
means you have another 25 to 50 basis
points of moves there, not real rate
driven. So, uh I would say 10 years uh
because of it it could be a inflation
move, not a real rate or risk premium
move.
Uh what do you think about on the
volatility side specifically? Obviously,
rate vol has been a big driver for all
of cross-asset volatility. So, where do
you think that's heading in the near
term?
Yeah, that's that's a good question. I
think rate vol right now for let's call
it the next week or 2 weeks will subside
a little bit, but overall, as I started
our conversation with, volatility now
increases.
Um and and the reason why it increases,
the big driver will come back to
inflation. It's not necessarily oil, but
it was the secondary impacts of the
Strait of Hormuz being closed, which is
your plastics, your fertilizers.
Um that comes into food, and we're going
to be seeing that in the in the numbers
coming forward to your packaging of
goods, your transportation of goods.
That could be significant and
sustainable. And even if there is a
deal, that will not go back to where it
was before. And that is the worrisome
part. The market is not looking at that
right now, and and rightfully so, but we
do believe that's going to be a big Q3
story late Q2. So, that's what we're
looking out for, and that's what we'll
be setting up for risk for. Earl Davis
of thank you so much for being with
us. A lot of people looking to CPI on
Friday, core PCE on Thursday, personal
income and spending, but more
importantly perhaps inflation
expectations given that the Federal
Reserve has said that they are going to
respond to that. This morning, we've
gotten a slew of messaging from the
president. The latest coming from
President Trump saying that he is
setting a 50% tariff on countries that
are supplying arms to Iran, saying it is
effective immediately. Oh, Alex Altman
of Barclays, what's your takeaway from
that given the fact that the tariff
lever is kind of coming into a picture
and merging with the Iran war? So,
what's really interesting about this,
analyzing it real-time as well as you,
is that this is just section 232, which
is something which Oh, that's just a
bunch of number salads that was there
with part of all the tariffs that was
going on. But, if you remember after the
IEEPA Supreme Court throwout, it all
went back to 122, 232, 301s, all these
random numbers. But, 232 was something
that was actually used in Trump's Mr.
President Trump's first term as well.
And, 232 is about national security. So,
this actually very much fits in that
framework. It's already been used on
aluminum. And, so I think it's a direct
strike at China once again as a point of
negotiation and leverage ahead of the
Trump-Xi meeting next month. Where does
this war, the conflict, the role of the
US, the role of China, where does it
leave the points of leverage going into
this negotiation in person? I think
right now the the the main objective is
to is to be calm between the two
superpowers. I think there is
effectively an agreed detente. The fact
that that the president is actually
going to China to actually meet with
President Xi is, you know, is a very big
deal. And, I think both sides ultimately
are in a position where they want to
maintain sort of this mutual respect
near-term, even if we can talk about
longer-term. There are, more structural
issues as the US and China decouple. One
of the reasons why, as a team, we love
the commodity theme is because of this
US-China decoupling and that whole every
man for himself. It started with the US
and China, and now I think it's morphing
into other regions as well, Europe in
particular. Yeah, Alex Altman, thank you
so much for being with us this morning.
Truly a pleasure having you on a day
that has been a complete whipsaw versus
what we've seen in the prior couple of
weeks. A huge risk rally, particularly
in Asia and Europe. In the US, you are
seeing that rally continue with big
tech, with the Russell 2000 futures
surging, yields significantly lower, and
oil prices plunging the most since the
pandemic. Coming up in the next hour,
Emily Roland of John Hancock, Tom
Porcelli of Wells Fargo, Matt Diszac of
Merrell and Bank of America Private
Bank. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
The amount of downside has probably been
less than anyone would have expected.
>> is being very calm about this whole
situation.
>> The drawdowns in equities were not as
great as you would expect.
>> is trying to understand what is likely
to happen.
>> Right now, the market is expecting a
soft off-ramp. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoerdan.
Good morning, live from New York.
Welcome back to the third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance. A two-week
ceasefire propping up risk assets around
the world with many questions remaining.
Some of them, perhaps, will get answered
with a Defense Department press
conference about begin any minute.
Analysts are searching for details to
understand the agreement, to understand
where the nodes of of agreement are, and
how quickly shipping can resume through
the Strait of Hormuz. Right now, in
markets, you are seeing that rally
continue to session highs, led by,
frankly, European and Asian equities. In
the United States, it's led by big tech,
and it's led by the small caps. You're
seeing both of those up more than 3 and
1/2% Nasdaq up about 3 and 1/2% Russell
3.9% futures in the S&P up 2.8% Around
the world, the gains are significantly
higher. The Kospi closing out at 6.9%
after being beaten up on concerns about
the ability of Asia to get fuel. The
Nikkei up 5.4%
the DAX with its best day going back to
2022. European equities up 5.2%
Meanwhile in the bond space you're
seeing an absolute rush into the front
end of the yield curve in the US you're
seeing a seven basis point decline 3.72%
now on the two year. Around the world
the UK and German bond yields down more
than 20 basis points and all of this
hinged on this right here. Oil prices
plunging the most going back to the
pandemic down about 15% on Brent $92.21
on WTI the June contract $85 as people
look to a potential for ships to start
moving once again through the Strait of
Hormuz. Coming up this hour Emily Roland
of Manulife John Hancock Investments
with that surging risk on sentiment as a
backdrop Tom Tom Porcelli of Wells Fargo
with inflation concerns weighing on the
Fed and Matt Diszac of Merrill Lynch
Bank of America Private Bank on
continuing US resilience. Right now we
are awaiting the Defense Department
press conference it has not started yet.
We are so happy Emily to have you in the
office. Emily how much are you looking
at this risk on rally as something that
could potentially have legs? I mean
investors have been trained to buy on
these dips and it's happened before
conflicts have been resolved. All we
have to look back to is a year ago in
the height of liberation day where there
was this almost panic buying. We used to
talk about panic selling for most of our
careers and now we're experiencing this
environment where dip buyers are just
absolutely ferocious coming into this
market and the risk of oil
of war escalating oil prices staying
elevated were really never fully priced
into markets to begin with. So I'm not
overly surprised to see this risk on
sentiment this morning. At what point do
you lean into it and at one point do you
say okay we could take profits sit back
here and wait for the next shoe to drop?
>> We We made a lot of changes based on the
geopolitical headlines. Clearly, so easy
to get whipsawed there. So, we've
continued to hold on to high-quality
assets here throughout the volatility,
finding pockets of areas that have been
trading at a discount. I'm excited for
earning season to start next week. We
can finally talk about something else
and bring the conversation back to the
fundamentals. Analysts are penciling in
13% earnings growth for this quarter.
Kind of a hard buy a high bar, but we
think the companies are going to be able
to deliver to some extent on those
expectations. Heading into this,
>> you're a bit more conservative. You're
leaning into the debt markets. You're
leaning away from some of the more
cyclically exposed areas that could
potentially get beaten up in some sort
of inflationary shock or a
stagflationary type of impulse. Do you
still see that as the most likely
outcome even with that backdrop of
earnings that we're seeing trickle out
this morning from the likes of Delta?
Yeah, I mean, we still are positive on
risk assets. The challenge is just the
starting point. You know, analysts are
penciling in again, after this it gets
even harder, 18-20% over the next couple
of quarters. So, the expectations are
probably a little bit elevated, but
we're still constructive.
>> Emily, we're going to continue this
conversation in just a minute. We are
seeing that briefing get started. The
Pentagon providing an update to
operations in the Middle East. Let's
listen in. longer.
Not on our watch.
Other presidents marked time and kicked
the can down the road.
President Trump made history.
From the strike that took out Qassem
Soleimani
to tearing up the disastrous Obama Iran
deal
to the precision campaign that
obliterated Iran's nuclear sites in
Operation Midnight Hammer to the
decisive military victory we just
achieved in Operation Epic Fury.
No other president has shown the courage
and resolve of this commander in chief.
President Trump forged this moment. Iran
begged for this ceasefire, and we all
know it.
As the president truth this morning, a
big day for world peace.
Iran wants it to happen.
They've had enough.
Operation Epic Fury was a historic and
overwhelming victory on the battlefield.
A capital V military victory.
By any measure,
Epic Fury decimated Iran's military and
rendered it combat ineffective for years
to come.
You see, in less than 40 days,
one of our combatant commands, Central
Command, CENTCOM, using less than 10% of
America's total combat power,
dismantled one of the world's largest
militaries. The world's leading state
sponsor of terrorism proved utterly
incapable
of defending itself,
its people, or its territory.
We untied just a fraction of our
strength, and Iran suffered a
devastating military defeat.
Together with our Israeli partners,
America's military achieved every single
objective.
On plan, on schedule, exactly as laid
out
from day one.
Iran's navy
is at the bottom of the sea. Whether
it's the Soleimani class, their frigate
class, their prized drone aircraft
carriers, submarines, mine layers, sunk.
Iran's air force has been wiped out.
Iran no longer has an air defense, any
sort of a comprehensive air defense
system. We own their skies.
Their missile program is functionally
destroyed.
Launchers, production facilities, and
existing stockpiles depleted and
decimated.
And almost completely ineffective. Iran
shot hundreds and hundreds of missiles
and attack one-way attack drones at our
aircraft carrier. They were obsessed
with it,
and they never got even close.
Every single one of those shots easily
shot down miles and miles away from the
Abe Lincoln. They were blowing ammo
into fantasy land.
Contrast that
with most significantly
in last night's wave of more than 800
strikes,
we finished completely destroying Iran's
defense industrial base.
A core pillar of our mission objective.
What little they have left buried in
bunkers is all they will have.
They can still shoot, we know that.
Their command and control is so
decimated they can't really talk and
coordinate. So, they still may shoot
here and there, but that would be very
very unwise.
But, they can no longer build missiles,
build rockets, build launchers, or build
UAVs. Their factories have been razed to
the ground.
Set back
in historic fashion.
You see, had Iran refused our terms,
the next targets would have been their
power plants,
their bridges,
and oil and energy infrastructure.
Targets they could not defend
and could not realistically rebuild. It
would have taken them decades, and we
were locked and loaded.
They couldn't defend against it.
President Trump had the power to
Iran's entire economy in minutes.
But, he choose he he chose mercy.
He spared those targets because Iran
accepted the ceasefire under
overwhelming pressure.
The new Iranian regime understood that a
deal was far better than the fate that
awaited them.
This new regime just happened to look at
what happened to their predecessors.
Their top leadership
was systematically eliminated.
The previous Iranian supreme leader,
dead.
The supreme national security council
secretary, dead.
The supreme leader office advisor, dead.
The supreme leader military office
chief,
dead.
The defense minister,
no longer with us.
The IRGC commander,
dead.
The armed forces general staff
commander, dead.
The intelligence minister,
dead.
The IRGC navy commander,
no longer here. The IRGC intel chief,
dead.
I skipped over a bunch and I could go on
and on and on. To include the new
so-called new supreme leader wounded and
disfigured.
This new regime was out of options and
out of time. So, they cut a deal.
They know this agreement means that they
will never ever possess a nuclear
weapon.
Under the terms, any nuclear material
they should have will be removed.
Any material, excuse me, they should not
have will be removed. Right now, their
dust is deeply buried and watched 24/7
overhead. The president has been clear
from the beginning there will be no
Iranian nuclear weapons.
Period, full stop. Other presidents said
it, President Trump did it.
Operation Epic Fury,
less than 6 weeks, clear mission,
decisive action, overwhelming firepower,
America first, a historic battlefield
victory.
For decades, Iran killed Americans with
roadside bombs in Iraq
using cowardly proxies to do their dirty
work while they hid safely in Tehran.
They struck our embassies with car bombs
and attacked from the shadows,
never daring to face us toe-to-toe.
They thought they could bleed America
with impunity.
Well, they just learned the hard way
what happens when you try to fight us
directly.
And even when they got lucky, one time
in 40 days, and down two of our pilots,
they couldn't hold them.
In a daring 14-hour rescue operation, 7
hours in daylight and 7 hours of night,
both pilots were recovered safely. Not
once,
but twice.
A daylight thunder run right up the
middle of their country.
Boots on the ground.
A midnight raid
right up the middle of their country.
Boots on the ground.
Zero American casualties.
The Iranians humiliated and demoralized.
We control their fate, not the other way
around. That's why they came to the
table.
Iran's defeat is America's retribution
for every American lost to Iranian
terror.
Especially those brave troops killed by
Iranian-made roadside bombs in Iraq that
my generation knows so well.
And for the suffering the regime has
inflicted around the world.
Now we have a chance at real peace and a
real deal.
The war department, for now,
for now,
has done its part.
We stand ready in the background to
ensure Iran upholds every reasonable
term.
And as everyone knows, nobody makes a
better deal
than President Trump.
To the warriors of epic fury, I say well
done.
You're the backbone of our country. Your
skill, your bravery, and sheer guts and
grit showed the world what America is
all about. I'm proud of you.
We're proud of you.
President's proud of you. Job well done.
But stay vigilant
and stay ready.
To the families of our fallen, your
sacrifice was in service of a historic
cause
and we will always remember your heroes,
our heroes.
We will continue to honor them.
And to our Israeli allies, thank you for
being a brave, capable, and willing ally
on this battlefield. The rest of the
world and the rest of our so-called
allies saw what capabilities look like.
They should take some notes.
Our troops, our American warriors,
deserve the credit for this day.
But God deserves all the glory.
Tens of thousands of sorties,
refuelings, and strikes carried out
under the protection of divine
providence. A massive effort
with miraculous protection.
Dude 44 Bravo
spoke for all of us.
God is
good.
The chairman will now provide an even
deeper military detail on the historic
success of Operation Epic Fury. Mr.
Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, and
good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
Thanks for being here. I want to start
this morning by honoring the 13 members
of our American joint force who were
killed in action thus far during this
operation.
Their sacrifice and that of their
families is deeply important to us and
we are grateful we are grateful for each
of them and will continue to mourn their
loss. Their names and their bravery will
never be forgotten.
On February 28th, the President of the
United States ordered the joint force to
execute Operation Epic Fury with the
direct direction to accomplish three
distinct military objectives. Destroy
Iran's ballistic missile and drone drone
capabilities, destroy the Iranian navy,
and destroy their defense industrial
base to ensure that Iran cannot
reconstitute the ability to project
power outside their borders.
Over the course of 38 days of major
combat operation, the joint force
achieved the military objectives as
defined by the president. We welcome the
ongoing ceasefire and as the secretary
said, we hope that Iran chooses a
lasting peace. But as secretary Heckseth
said, let let us be clear, a ceasefire
is a pause and the joint force remains
ready if ordered or called upon to
resume combat operations with the same
speed and precision as we've
demonstrated over the last 38 days and
we hope that that is not the case.
I want to congratulate and thank the
leadership today at US Central Command,
including the commander Admiral Brad
Cooper, the deputy commander Lieutenant
General Kevin Leahy, the senior enlisted
leader Fleet Master Chief Comp- Compton,
and every one of the component
commanders, senior enlisted leaders, and
especially the staff down at US Central
Command who does not get called out for
any of the credit, but grinds 24/7 to
help offer the options that we bring to
the secretary and the president. I also
want to highlight the forces in United
States European Command under the
command of Alexis Grinkevich who
protected the western flank in support
of CENTCOM. And I want to thank our
partners across the intelligence
community. Our ability to see and
understand what an adversary is doing
help us to be as decisive as we must be
on the battlefield. And that includes
DIA, NSA, NGA, the CIA, and the National
Reconnaissance Office, and others.
I want to thank the other combat
commands who have thus far contributed
along the way to US Central Command.
This includes TRANSCOM, STRATCOM,
SPACECOM, SOCOM, and Cyber Command, all
of whom poured all in in support of
CENTCOM's efforts.
And I want to thank, as the Secretary
did, our Gulf partners who fought
alongside each and every one of us every
day. From the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
the UAE, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, and
Jordan, all who joined us together to
defend and protect our people and our
assets, and who, if required, stand
ready to do so again.
And I want to thank my team at the Joint
Staff who work literally around the
clock in order to help me offer the
options that I must with the associated
risks to the Secretary and to the
President. They are the hardest working
people that I know, and I am deeply
grateful for their service.
Most importantly,
>> Pete Hegseth and Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Air Force General Dan
Cane speaking about what just transpired
and having a lot of gratitude toward a
lot of different players. The takeaway
from this is one of completion or near
completion and the idea that there has
been a ceasefire that has been agreed
upon. This is the reason why you're
seeing markets flying and the reason why
they have stayed at session highs in the
United States in pre-market trading
across the board. Joining us now for
more insight is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Tyler, seemed like something
not necessarily of a victory lap, but it
seemed like a real sense of completion.
Well, Lisa, to your point in this
Pentagon update, Secretary Pete Hegseth
said that the US has achieved every
single military objective citing
tactical successes in degrading Iran's
military capabilities and their defense
industrial base. He did go on to say
though that Iran may still, quote, shoot
here and there, but that would be unwise
as a ceasefire takes hold. The officials
were putting a finer point on that post
that we got from President Trump earlier
on Truth Social outlining that a
potential longer-term agreement with
Iran would include one, no enrichment of
uranium, and two, that the US will work
with Iran to remove already enriched
material. We heard both of these
officials saying that Iran will not be
allowed to have nuclear capabilities
going forward. Now, Hexa says that there
is a quote, "real chance for a real deal
and real peace, but that the military
remains ready to resume operations if
needed." Of course, we had heard from
Vice President J.D. Vance, who is now
leading the next round of negotiations,
calling the truce earlier today, quote,
"fragile." Lisa, we are still gleaning
details on exactly what these
negotiators will ultimately agree to. As
you will know, it all depends on
securing the Strait of Hormuz, but
President Trump did float earlier today
that the US is willing to talk about
tariff and sanctions relief with Iran if
an agreement is reached.
>> Tariff sanction and tariff and sanction
relief for Iran. Also though, talking on
a Truth Social post about potentially
putting a 50% tariff effective
immediately on anyone who sells weaponry
to Iran. What do we know, Tyler, about
that?
Well, at this point, Lisa, it's unclear
exactly which authority the
administration would use in order to
implement such a tariff regime
considering that the Supreme Court had
already struck down President Trump's
broad-based emergency powers under the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act. Though, of course, we do know that
there are other tools in the tool kit,
as this is the administration likes to
say, including those related to national
security. We have reached out to the US
Trade Representative's office to get
more details on whether or not anything
is truly locked and loaded that could
actually put those tariffs into effect.
But, it really felt like a message
geared towards Russia and China
considering we know that they are at
this point the largest backers when it
comes to weapon supplies. And Lisa, we
can say that there was reporting
overnight from the Uh, AFP saying that
President Trump feels that China
actually was uh, a huge player in
getting Iran to the negotiating table
for this ceasefire. Of course, President
Trump is gearing up for his trip to
Beijing next month, and perhaps this
could be part of some of that leverage
as we know that China played a pretty
big role when it came to any potential
ramifications from this conflict since
most of the oil that goes through the
Strait of Hormuz heads towards Beijing.
Taylor Kendall, thank you so much for
that. We're looking at markets that are
surging on the hope of a ceasefire
taking hold. Emily Roland here with us
of Manulife John Hancock Investments.
Emily, how much are you looking at a
scenario that truly is a parallel to
what we saw about a year ago with
Liberation Day, and then the
de-escalation almost around this exact
same time last year? Yeah, I mean,
that's certainly what markets are
telling us. And you know, markets never
fully priced this in as we talked about
earlier. The idea was that the US was
the only part of the world that was
going to be impacted by this. If you
think about cross-asset performance
coming into today, Japanese equities up
7%. They are a massive importer of oil.
Emerging market equities up 4%. US
small-cap value stocks were up 7%
year-to-date. High-yield bond spreads
barely moved. We got up to about 330
basis points, back down to 3%, and
meanwhile, you saw these kind of
momentum darlings of the past year
really surging the most this morning,
whether it was the euro, European
stocks, the Kospi. Just remarkable. The
DAX is you mentioned earlier seeing one
of its best one-day gains. So, we're
just sort of back to the narrative
really of the last 12 months since the
market bottomed in the wake of
Liberation Day. What's a haven in this
kind of market given myriad different
types of shocks that could be coming
down the pike?
>> Yeah, it it's amazing, and we I think we
learned a lot of lessons about what is a
haven in the periods or the days over
the last 6 weeks where we did see
downside volatility. So, we saw that the
US dollar was the one The two things
that worked were basically the dollar
and energy stocks. What didn't work
surprisingly were things like gold. Uh,
you know, it's we've had a lot of
discussions with investors about whether
you can consider gold a safe haven or
diversifier against geopolitical risk
and recent history is telling us that
maybe not so much. So, some pretty
interesting process at asset dynamics
playing out here. We suggested that we
would look at any backup in rates as
sort of a gift uh to lean into the
income that's available in high-quality
bonds and we're certainly seeing that
pay off this morning.
>> Do you think though that that has legs
particularly in longer duration simply
because we're looking at a global
backdrop where every nation is trying to
build up their supply chains, their so
domestic reliance, their infrastructure,
and they are going to have to spend
money. How much does that act as a
overhang as a potential counterbalance
to some of the otherwise bullish
sentiment that we're coming into
duration?
>> Yeah, I mean there are some little
pockets of inflationary pressures as you
point to and you know, clearly
commodities was playing a big role in
that. But what I think bond markets
aren't sniffing out is some of the
disinflation that's coming down the
pipeline. We're seeing it in areas like
the housing market, the shelter
component of inflation finally seeing
some relief. We look at things like
Zillow, home prices, they're about flat
year over year. Rental prices are
falling about 1 and 1/2% across the
country. Shelter's 35% of CPI, so it has
the ability to overwhelm some of those
other inflationary factors. Um, we're
also seeing wage growth. Um, I've spent
a lot of time comparing this period to
2022.
Um, wage growth was 5 to 6% at that time
and we're about 3 and 1/2% so really not
seeing that pocket of inflation showing
any strength either. That said, we are
getting earnings and we're going to get
earnings come next week and they are
expected to be very strong. Delta came
out earlier today. Uh, they admitted
full year guidance. There's a lot of
uncertainty, but they beat expectations
and frankly they show that consumer
demand is strong. They might actually
cut capacity in order to keep prices
higher in order to offset some of the
fuel prices. I mean, what would you see
in earnings that would make you rethink
this sort of disinflationary narrative
and frankly a more muted level of
growth? Yeah, you know, we're looking at
the impact of currency on earnings. Most
significantly this this Q1 season and
what you're going to see is really
helpful comps in terms of the dollar was
exceptionally strong in Q1 of last year
and the weakness is going to be really
accretive to corporate earnings this
year. So you think about 40% of the
revenues of S&P 500 companies come from
overseas. So when the dollar weakens,
that translation effect effect is really
really helpful. It's almost like a gift.
It's a sort of a liquidity release valve
for companies when that dollar weakens.
Then you look ahead though to Q2, Q3,
the comps become much less favorable. So
I think this upcoming earning season can
be a good one for companies. That being
a key a key element there, but I think
it gets a lot harder from here.
>> wonderful to have you. Thank you so much
for being with us. Emily Roland of
Manulife John Hancock Investments as we
look at a roaring rally around the world
on the prospect of peace deal or at
least a ceasefire agreement for the next
two weeks. Coming up, we've got Tom
Porcelli of Wells Fargo with inflation
data in focus, core PCE and CPI on deck
and Yahaira Anand with your morning
movers. Airline stocks very much in
focus. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
Looking at a market at session highs in
the United States after a number of
different back and forth discussions
about a ceasefire. Yes, there have been
a number of projectiles, etc. However,
discussions on both sides seem to have
at the moment a one hand a cessation of
some of the escalation risk and on the
other the promise of allowing ships to
go through the Strait of Hormuz. Right
now you're seeing equities across the
board S&P futures higher by 2.6%
3.4% gain on Nasdaq futures Russell 2000
up 3 and 1/2% meanwhile the real drama
has been in Europe both in the equity
side and in the bond space. You can see
a surge into some of the fixed income
products in the front of the yield curve
in the UK two-year yields down 25 basis
points to 4.16%
Germany the two-year yield down a
similar amount 2.48% in the US a 5%
decline to 3.73%
all of this being driven by oil. Oil
prices plunging on the prospect to an
easier flow through the Strait of Hormuz
down more than 15% for both Brent and
WTI 1 hour away for the cash open here
are your morning movers with you higher
on and Tyra. Hi Lisa the airlines were
already up on ceasefire relief but they
are up even higher after Delta reported
earnings the airline beating
expectations with strong demand from the
premium and loyalty members helping
cushion a more than two billion dollar
fuel hits it expects to incur through
June due to the war but this idea that
there is a resolution in sight is
helping to lift the entire sector with
United and American also up some 12 to
13%. Uh and as we see oil pulling back
sharply we are seeing pressure on the US
domestic oil players. These names had
been had run a big during the conflict
Occidental up until yesterday up 16%
since the war began Exxon up more than
10% so you are seeing this reversal
today as investors lock in those gains
and another clear beneficiary of the
ceasefire is the tech trade. We are
seeing names like meta up 5% but these
names had been hit hard during the
conflict that's higher oil prices and
inflation fears pushed rates higher but
as that pressure starts to ease you are
seeing investors rotating back into this
more growthy part of the market, Lisa.
Thank you so much Yahaira. Let's turn to
the Federal Reserve. Investors looking
for signals from the Central Bank's
meeting minutes due out at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern. Bloomberg's Michael McKee joins
us. Mike, is this just ancient history
or there is there actually going to be
some tangible information that we can
glean?
Well, there's always the possibility of
tangible uh tangible uh important
information that we might get but this
is largely ancient history. It was 3
weeks ago. The war was just beginning
and nobody knew where we were going. We
still don't really know where we're
going. So, it's hard to say that we have
any kind of justification for
putting any hope on uh rate cuts at this
point. But, the markets are starting to
price that back in. Uh you look at
December and there's about a 50% chance
right now priced into the markets that
the Fed will be cutting rates by then.
We'll see how that develops over the
next couple of weeks because we've got a
lot of data and a lot of work to do on a
peace deal as well. You look at what Fed
officials were saying during the uh war
and I guess I it's still on officially
but uh there are about uh half and half
uh of the Fed officials who are at this
point saying
we either want to stay on hold or we
might be looking at raising rates
because inflation is going up. Now, if
inflation stops going up, then that
group will become smaller but there's
still a substantial number of people who
are on the hawkish side and have been
not just because of the war but because
for 5 years they haven't gotten to the
2% target. It's kind of significant as
well that there are only two people
who've spoken during this interregnum,
uh that have said that we should maybe
think about cutting rates. Stephen
Myron, of course, but he won't be on the
Fed much longer if Kevin Warsh is
confirmed. And Chris Waller, who said,
"If prices go down, then we can start
thinking about cutting rates again." So,
it's all going to be about what happens
with prices going forward. And we have a
lot of inflation data coming out very
soon. Uh the Fed minutes aren't going to
tell us much, but CPI on Friday is going
to be very influential in the markets.
We also get PCE tomorrow. The PCE is
February, before the war started, but it
gives us a baseline for the Fed's
favorite indicator. Then we move on to
seeing what happens with import prices
and wholesale prices. And then we have
the Fed meeting on April 29th. Also,
Fed's going to be interested in what the
Michigan expectations for inflation are.
Are Americans pricing in higher gas
prices for the time being and starting
to think inflation will continue. So, a
lot to look forward to, a lot of
unsettledness, but I'm not sure we get
much of a guidance out of the minutes
today. Michael McKee, thank you so much.
An honest assessment of what we can
expect at 2:00 p.m. Eastern today. CPI
data due out on Friday. That will be not
sleepy in any way, shape, or form,
giving investors the first look on how
oil prices are stoking inflation. Tom
Porcelli, chief economist over at Wells
Fargo, writing, "The March CPI report
will put an abrupt end to the gradual
disinflationary trend in place over the
past 2 years." Tom joins us now, and
congratulations. It's been a while, I
know, on your new seat. But I'm thinking
more broadly here. You were in the
disinflation camp. Yep. Something has
shifted. Yep. Why has it so
fundamentally shifted, even with a
potential ceasefire?
>> Yeah, so I I think what we have to keep
in mind is that, you know, if we look at
sort of the things that are really sort
of putting a floor beneath inflation
right now, um there's there's a couple
of them. Um one of them, uh of course,
has been this sort of this
transportation component, which has just
been sort of, you know, enduring, right?
Like we keep on seeing these air fare
price increases. Um and that's been true
over the course of the last, um you
know, sort of handful of months. Um it's
been volatile, to be sure. Um but
obviously now, over the next couple of
months, it's very easy to expect that
trans- the transportation component, and
specifically air fares, um will will
will will lift inflation. And in fact,
you know, come uh Friday, when we get
CPI, I mean, that's exactly what we we
should that I think we should all
expect. In fact, we're looking for the
month-on-month to increase by a full
percentage point, which is um sort of an
outsized gain, needless to say. But, if
now all of a sudden, here we are at 85
um on on on WTI, if that's maintained,
then all of a sudden, as you roll into
the the April report, um then all of a
sudden, you're looking at flat um prices
uh from from a transportation
perspective. So, a lot of volatility,
but I think Lisa, it it it's funny. I I
The thing that we've really tried to
drive home to investors is it's not just
about this kind of inflation, that is
really being impacted by Iran. Really,
at the end of the day, what's I think
what's going to really matter, even
maybe even more, inflation expectations.
And inflation expectations, if you look
at the 5-year forward in in inflation
swaps, if you look at the 5-year forward
measure, or if you look at the 1-year
forward measure, they've been incredibly
stable. So, I think that really actually
sort of will lend some comfort to to the
Fed, and why we've continued to expect
the Fed to cut rates. I love at Cameron
Dawson's comment of NewEdge Capital. She
said came on earlier, and she said,
"Find someone to believe in you the way
that the market believes in the Fed
reaching its 2% inflation target." Is
there going to be a certain point where
markets realize, you know, if we haven't
had a 2% inflation rate going back more
than 5 years, and there's no real hope
of it in the near term, that we're just
essentially giving it up for good? You
know, and and so,
this is this is part of a much bigger
conversation. I will be very, very brief
on this. Um
or briefer than an economist. So,
I actually hate the target. I hate that
there's a 2.0% target, mostly because
one, um it sort of borders on hubris to
think that you can actually hit 2.0%
with any degree of precision over any
long period of time. And we spend very
limited amount of time at at at 2.0%. I
think the RBA, the Reserve Bank of
Australia, actually has a much better
approach. It's a range. Um that to me is
a sort of a better way of thinking about
it. I think what you know, bringing it
back to the Fed, I think what they are
going to sort of you know, sort of come
to um grips with. And I think this
process is already underway is that if
you are sort of you know, in the 2%
zone, that's going to be enough for them
to feel comfortable. And by the way, if
anyone needs sort of the proof in the
pudding on that, the Fed still has cuts
built into their set. Um so even with
inflation north of their target, I think
it's more about what's going on beneath
the surface. And that you and I have
talked about this many times over the
last year or more. You know, if I just
swap out OER for something like Zillow
or Apartment List rents, you're already
below target. Well,
giving that uh putting that aside for 1
second, a lot of people are coming into
this situation seeing the war in Iran
and saying this is going to add not only
a risk to inflation to the upside, but
also to growth to the downside. And this
is sort of the key question mark in a
lot of people's minds, especially as we
get earnings like the one from Delta
where they're outperforming and they can
increase prices. They're going to cut
capacity to do it, but they are going to
maintain some of their profit guidance.
>> Yes. You know, given that, I mean, where
is the stag? And are we looking at a
situation of just inflation that's
significant with above-trend growth for
a prolonged period of time?
>> I so I'm a I'm a fader of the stag part
of this. Uh I think what we have to bear
in mind is that before Iran, we actually
had fiscal tailwind.
Right? That was going to be very
notable. In fact, we actually would have
argued that pre-Iran, you were looking
at 3% growth in the United States this
year, right? Like we were well above
consensus. We'll We'll pare that back a
little bit just given what's happened
over the last couple of months. You're
still going to be sort of well above uh
above what I think consensus probably
still is. So the question that we had
been asking ourselves over the last
couple of weeks was was it going to
remain this this fiscal stimulus? Was it
going to remain a tailwind or was it
going to be a shock absorber? Right,
because the longer that this endures,
right, the longer energy price increases
remain, the more it becomes a shock
absorber. But, if this is the exit ramp,
right, if we actually have found an exit
ramp, which is an open question, but if
we have found an exit ramp, then you
still get the fiscal tailwind part of
this, and you can actually have a pretty
good growth year. How much is this also
predicated on true productivity gains
coming from the likes of AI? There was a
study that was put out by the Fed
showing that the population has shrunk
for the first time or the most going
back to the 1950s. And ultimately, you
cannot have an economy that grows at the
same pace that it has traditionally if
you have a shrinking population unless
productivity really picks up. I mean,
how much is this all just predicated on
the AI promises? So, I would say
productivity is going to be a critically
important part of this entire
conversation. Is it critically important
today? Actually, I would argue that the
one of the key reasons why we're
actually seeing productivity
improvement, I mean, just think about
what productivity is, right? Is the math
on that is very basic. It's basically
output minus hours. Output part has
actually been doing, you know, sort of
decently well, as we all appreciate. The
hours part though has been getting
clobbered, and that has been flattering
productivity, I think, in ways that is
really under appreciated. So, you're
getting the productivity lift that
actually we would argue has very little
to do with what we're seeing from a a
tech spending perspective, whether it's
AI or otherwise. But, as we continue to
move forward, there's almost no question
that you're going to see this this sort
of AI really kick in. But, I want to
stress something. If I look at AI usage
by sector, and I look at job hiring by
sector, and I put that on a scatter
chart, you know what it looks like? It
looks like someone sneezed on the page,
which, you know, statistically speaking,
means there's like, you know, the R is
zero. Um, so, you're not actually seeing
that kick in yet. It's That's actually
waiting for us. Right now, it's actually
more of just an improvement based on a
reduction in hours. At this point, a a
lot of people are also wondering how
isolated the United States is from the
rest of the world on a lot of different
levels, but when it comes to economic uh
trajectory as well. People looking at
the likes of Asia and Europe and
potentially any importers of oil, and
even if there is some sort of ceasefire,
oil prices are going to be higher. How
important is it for the US for the rest
of the world to be growing at a rapid
clip or at least not contracting, which
some people have started to game out
based on higher commodity costs?
>> Yeah, and you know, that's why I think
it's important to sort of for all of us
to know is this really the exit ramp?
Because the reality is that in the
United States, the Fed benefits from
having dual mandate.
Um, you know, jobs and and inflation.
The rest of the global central banks do
not have that luxury. They basically
have to focus on on inflation. Um, so
the exit ramp is important because
you're al- already you're talking about
hikes in other countries. Again, we were
faders of the hike idea in the United
States and remain that and that remains
the case for us. Um, but the more that
you actually will see that upward
pressure on inflation, that puts upward
pressure on short-term rates, the more
that the sort of the growth differential
US versus everyone else will favor the
United States. Interesting. Tom
Porcelli, wonderful to see you. Thank
you so much for being with us. Tom
Porcelli, chief economist over at Wells
Fargo. Right now, let's head over to
Hagar Onan and get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning.
>> Hey, Hagar. Hi, Lisa. The White House
wrapping up a briefing on the ceasefire
just moments ago with US Defense
Secretary Pete Hegseth saying the
campaign was a quote historic
battlefield victory and the military has
done its part for now. He says the
ceasefire means Iran will never have a
nuclear weapon.
Vice President J.D. Vance arguing that
Iran's developments are good but warns
the truce is fragile.
If the Iranians are willing in good
faith to work with us, I think we can
make an agreement. If they're going to
lie, if they're going to cheat, if
they're trying to going to try to
prevent even the fragile truce that
we've we've set up from taking place,
then they're not going to be happy.
Because what the president has also
shown is that we still have clear
military, diplomatic, and maybe most
importantly, we have extraordinary
economic leverage.
Vance wrapping up his remarks in
Budapest this week adding the US
achieved what they wanted, which is the
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz.
And here, PIMCO is in talks with Bank of
America to help finance a massive Oracle
data center in Michigan. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg the deal could
involve roughly 14 billion dollars in
debt. If completed, it would mark
PIMCO's second major data center
financing in under a year. That's your
Bloomberg brief, Lisa. Thank you so
much, You Hadar for everything this
morning. Up next, setting you up for the
day ahead. Plus, Matt Dizac of Maryland
Bank of America Private Bank on renewed
US optimism. From New York, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
Operation Epic Fury was a historic and
overwhelming victory on the battlefield.
A capital V military victory. We hope
that Iran chooses a lasting peace. Let
us be clear, a ceasefire is a pause and
the joint force remains ready if ordered
or called upon to resume combat
operations. That was US Defense
Secretary Pete Hegseth and Joint Chiefs
of Staff Chair General Dan Cain as we
assess the state of the ceasefire, what
the conditions are, what still needs to
be determined. There is a huge rally in
risk assets around the world as people
assess just how much this reduces some
of the escalation risks in the US. You
do see futures inflecting higher led by
the tech sector as well as small caps.
Both higher more than 3.4%. The S&P
futures higher by 2.6%
in the fixed income space. If
inflationary risks are at least tempered
by the idea that maybe this conflict
will not go on for too long. The Fed not
necessarily on the hot seat. Yields
significantly lower, particularly the
front end down six basis points to 3.73%
and across the curve. All of this
predicated on the big driver, which is
oil. Oil prices plunging more than 10%
with Brent and WTI now down more than
16%
as we assess what this looks like for
ships trying to resume passage through
the Strait of Hormuz. Come counting down
to the opening bell. Here is the trading
diary for the week ahead. 1:00 p.m.
Eastern, a White House press briefing.
At 2:00 p.m., the Fed meeting minutes,
which as Michael McKee told us are
ancient history. At 3:30 p.m., President
Trump meeting with the Secretary General
of NATO. Thursday, another round of
jobless claims. PCE data also coming
out. And Friday, CPI and University of
Michigan sentiment survey. Watch that
space for inflation expectations among
consumers. Turning back to our top
story, the US-Iran cease fire pulling
oil prices and treasury yields lower.
Traders now betting easing energy prices
can keep Fed rate cuts on track. Matt
Diszak of Merrill and Bank of America
Private Bank joins us now. Matt, great
to see you. Thank you for being here.
How much are you reassessing just what
the Fed can do and frankly how much
momentum the US economy can continue to
have through the remainder of the year?
So, we always thought the idea that the
Fed was not going to cut rates at all
this year it was probably a step too
far. That's probably the worst it would
be, but that was probably unlikely. So,
we've moved out officially
our projection for probably two Fed cuts
this rate years. Two cuts this year
still. Pushing them back in terms of the
time frame, probably one in September,
maybe one back end of the year. It's
probably somewhere between one and two,
but we always had the idea that the move
up in rates based on this shorter term
oil price shock was not going to be a
reliable indicator. And when you got to
real yields at close to 3% on the
30-year tips, over 2% on 10 years. When
you saw the short end sell-off, we
thought that was an opportunity uh to
add some duration risk, add some fixed
income risk. Right now, again, hoping
the ceasefire holds, that seems to be
correct.
>> There is some reporting from Iran and
state TV that the first ship has passed
through uh the Strait of Hormuz since
the ceasefire. There still is an
expectation in markets though that
prices on oil will remain elevated. That
this is not the end some of the
inflationary pressures coming from the
physical world as people stockpile and
try to have uh greater domestic
security. How do you factor that into
your expectation of two rate cuts and a
Federal Reserve that still is amenable
to the idea of easing policy?
>> Yeah, but again, the official forecasts
are two cuts, but the economics team at
Bank of America recognizes that's
aggressive and that certainly could
change.
It's unlikely that the data is going to
be that clear moving forward. These uh
supply logjams take time to work
themselves through. But again, the idea
that just that energy prices going up is
necessarily inflationary for the economy
as a whole, we take a little bit of
challenge with that.
Gas prices go up, for people to spend
that much on gas, and everything else is
unlikely. They'd probably have to cut
back spending elsewhere. So, sustained
energy price increases could actually
function like a rate hike. They can
create demand destruction for other
areas of the economy. So, in order for
people to spend as much on gas if oil
prices stay this high, they'd either
have to dip in the COVID savings, which
they don't have, they'd have to use
their real earnings growth, which is not
that great right now, or they could
borrow against assets like their home.
They could fund consumption with
borrowing like we did pre-financial
crisis. We're not seeing them do that.
So, we're not seeing sustained
inflationary pressures economy-wide just
from one sector of the economy going up,
whether it was energy prices or tariffs.
Prices in one sector don't necessarily
have to lead to inflation-wide increase
across the whole economy, which is why
we were concerned about expecting no
rate cuts this year. We thought that was
a step too far.
>> That said, we're seeing earnings from
the likes of Delta coming out this
morning and painting a picture of
resilience and painting a picture of
enough consumers, maybe not all
consumers, but enough of them having the
discretionary resources to go out and
spend money. They're cutting capacity,
charging more money, and there are
people who are willing to spend that. At
what point do earnings potentially paint
a picture of resilience that does mean
that some people can absorb those
prices, and you can see that sort of
persistence in terms of inflation.
>> do see that resilience. You can see it
in the manufacturing data ISM, you can
see it in the services data, you can see
it in retail spending, you can see it in
the recent jobs report. There is amazing
resilience for this economy. Again, if
you could can't come into this
environment with perfect information
about what would happen, people would
probably not guess the S&P would be down
2 or 3% from its all-time high. The
durability and the resilience of the US
in face of crises, even in crises that
we ourselves somewhat caused, is is is
quite incredible. We are, again,
relative to the rest of the world,
situations like this highlight the
resilience of the US economy and the
durable competitive unavailable
advantages the US has, whether it's
demographic, whether it's educational,
agricultural resources. We have so many
advantages, and that's coming through in
the US economy, you're seeing that.
What's your top trade after the
ceasefire, given some of the momentum
that you're seeing behind fixed income
right now? For the individual investor,
we would be looking at municipal bonds,
particularly longer out the curve. You
can get on a tax equivalent yield over
9% on long-dated investment grade
municipals with no leverage. That is a
pretty attractive tax equivalent yield.
Again, we find yields to be generally
attractive here, both for individual
investors and for institutional
investors, so we're not that concerned
about duration or interest rate risk. We
think it's a good time to add and
stretch out a little bit there. Matt
Dizzack, thank you so much for being
with us. Matt Dizzack of Bank of America
and Bank of America Private Bank here
with us. It has been a busy day in
Washington ahead with a White House
press briefing and President Trump's
meeting with the Secretary General of
NATO. We're also getting headlines about
a first ship passing through the Strait
of Hormuz. The Financial Times though
reporting that Saudi Arabia's crucial
East-West pipeline was hit by a drone
attack. Bringing it all together to
understand what the state of play is is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler, it
feels like it's moving very quickly.
What's the latest in terms of the
ceasefire and what details we're finding
out?
Hey Lisa, well at this point actually a
person familiar with the matter just
confirmed to Bloomberg News that that
Saudi Arabia oil pipeline that goes to
the Red Sea was indeed hit by a drone
attack. At this point the damage is
still being assessed as we wait to glean
further details. We haven't gotten any
further confirmation other than that or
a response from the White House at this
point as the ceasefire they would like
to see ultimately take hold but of
course we had heard from Vice President
J.D. Vance earlier today that the truce
at this point is quote fragile. Still in
this briefing earlier this hour from
Pentagon officials they are maintaining
that the US has achieved its full
military objectives in Iran and they are
moving forward with this short-term
agreement. President Trump so far has
outlined some of those key demands that
the US thinks it can get in a deal
including that Iran will not be allowed
to have any nuclear capabilities and
that the US will work with Iran on
extracting the enriched material that is
already inside the country. There's
going to be a lot developing today at
1:00 p.m. Eastern we will get that
update from White House Press Secretary
Caroline Levitt but I'll also put on
your radar as you mentioned that
President Trump will be meeting with the
NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte have a
relatively warm relationship with
President Trump but of course the
transatlantic alliance has been strained
over this conflict. I think we will hear
a lot more about the Strait of Hormuz as
President Trump has previously ramped up
the pressure on allies to help make sure
that that waterway can get opened. Tyler
Kendall, wonderful reporting throughout
the morning. Thank you so much for that.
We are seeing markets continuing to stay
near all-time highs for US equities
futures and S&P up 2.7%
oil prices still plunging more than 14%
on the heels of a ceasefire. Coming up
tomorrow we've got Keith Lerner of
Truist, Bob Michele of JP Morgan, Jill
Carey Hall of Bank of America, and
Michelle Weaver of Morgan Stanley. This
was Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.